abandon\To abandon something is to give it up completely. If you’re in a cabin and a forest fire approaches, you’d better get in your car and abandon your cabin, or else be prepared to abandon your life.
abbreviate\To abbreviate is to shorten. Words are often abbreviated, like when we say sked instead of schedule.
abnormal\If you get a snowstorm in the middle of July, you could say that you are experiencing “abnormal weather.” Something that is abnormal is out of the ordinary, or not typical.
abolition\Abolition is the act of getting rid of something, like the abolition of slavery.
abort\his application
abound\When things abound, there are a lot of them. In spring, birds, flowers, rain, and frisbees abound.
abrasion\An abrasion is a scrape. An abrasion can happen to a person, as in a skinned knee, or to an object, as in what you get when you apply sandpaper to wood.
abreast\There's nothing worse than being stuck on a narrow path behind two people walking abreast of one another. If they only knew you were there, they'd walk single file so you could pass them. Abreast means side by side.
abrupt\An abrupt decision is one you make suddenly. An abrupt halt is one the Road Runner comes to when reaching an abrupt drop-off — you'd hear brakes squealing.
absence\Absence is the state of not being someplace, like school. It can also refer to the amount of time something has been, or plans to be gone.
absolutely\his application
absorb\To absorb is to take in or suck up like a sponge. If you don't hear your mother calling because you are reading, you could say you were absorbed in the book.
abstract\Use the adjective abstract for something that is not a material object or is general and not based on specific examples.
absurd\Something absurd is really silly, absolutely ridiculous, or total nonsense. Thinking you can wear flip flops and a bikini to the North Pole is an absurd idea, for example.
abundant\On Halloween, you can find candy in abundant supply. Use abundant to describe something that exists in large amounts that are more than what's needed.
academy\An academy is a fancy school, often one devoted to one subject or discipline, such as music or science. You can also use academy to describe the world of higher learning.
acanopener\his application
accelerate\Accelerate means to speed up. A car accelerates when you step on the gas. You can accelerate the process of getting a visa if you happen to know someone who works in the consulate.
access\Most libraries provide computers you can use to access the Internet. If chemicals are being stolen from a lab, you might ask who has access to the lab. Access is approaching or making use of something, or the ability to do so
accessible\Accessible can mean easy to get to. If the mall is easily accessible, you might be tempted to spend a lot of money on your lunch breaks.
accessory\his application
acclaim\You know you've hit it big when you earn acclaim, or enthusiastic approval. And when you have achieved "critical acclaim," even the grouchy critics approve of you.
accommodate\If you accommodate, you are making an adjustment to suit a particular purpose. If you accommodate your brother's demand for the attic room, then you give in and let him take over that space.
accompany\The verb accompany means to keep someone company, or to be their companion on a trip or journey. In a musical sense, accompany means to play background music for the lead singer or soloist.
accomplish\To accomplish something is to get it done. People usually accomplish things that are sources of pride — like goals or records. But people accomplish immoral acts as well — like scandals or cons.
accomplished\The adjective accomplished is useful for describing someone who's very good at something. You might use it to talk about yourself if you are an accomplished — or highly skilled — sword swallower.
accord\An accord is an agreement between groups or even nations, like a formal peace accord that prevents war or the accord between you and your sister specifying who gets to use the car on which days.
account\An account can be many things — such as a story, like if you give a friend an account of what happened at the party she missed. It can also be a business arrangement, like a bank account or an email account.
accretive\adjgrowing by accretion
accumulate\To accumulate means to gather, usually in large quantities. Let's hope your boyfriend is not the type to accumulate girlfriends.
accuracy\Accuracy refers to a lack of mistakes or errors. "I type very fast, but the accuracy of my typing is n't very goode."
accurate\Something that is accurate is exact and true. It's important to be accurate in the kitchen with your measurements and in the courtroom with your testimony.
accuse\If you charge someone with misdeeds or misconduct, you accuse that person. If the last piece of devil's food cake is missing, your sister may accuse you of eating it — especially if you have chocolate on your mouth.
accustom\The verb accustom means to become used to or familiar with something; to make something a habit. If there is a new baby in your family, you will most likely become accustomed to changing diapers.
acid\In technical terms, acid is a substance that can react with a base to make a salt. In practical terms, acid is the stuff you want to keep off your hands, or any part of you, because it will eat away your skin.
acknowledge\his application
acoustic\Acoustic means having to do with sound. In concert halls, acoustic panels direct the way sound moves. An audio engineer is trained in acoustic design for music recording.
acquaint\When you acquaint yourself with something, you familiarize yourself with it. When you visit a new city, you should acquaint yourself with the layout of the streets so you don’t get lost.
acquire\To acquire means to get or come to own something. You acquire an education by your own effort. You acquire a painting by paying for it, or when someone gives it you. You acquire a sense of calm in crisis through experience.
acting\the performance of a part or role in a drama
action\An action is a thing that is done, and not merely thought or spoken about. Possible actions could range from blinking to invading a country.
activity\An activity is something you do, or just the state of doing. You might plan some indoor activities for a rainy day, or you might just rely on watching your gerbils' activity in their cage.
acute\his application
adapt\Say you move to a country where everyone cooks with lots of hot peppers.  At first the food scalds your tongue, but over time you adapt — you change in a way that allows you to deal with the new circumstances.
additional\If your parents get you a cell phone and add it to their plan as an additional line, they are adding one more line to their bill, so additional means another or one more.
additive\adjcharacterized or produced by addition
address\his application
adequate\When you want to say that something is enough or good enough for a particular need, use the adjective adequate. You might have an adequate amount of flour for a batch of pancakes, but not a lot extra.
adhere\his application
adhesive\An adhesive is something sticky that holds things together.  Use an adhesive to repair a cracked plate.
adjacent\Adjacent means close to or near something. You may consider the people up and down your street to be neighbors, but your next-door neighbor is the person who lives in the house or apartment adjacent to yours.
adjunct\Adjunct means something added on, but not part of the whole. An adjunct professor is someone who is hired by a college to teach but isn't a full member of the faculty.
adjust\When you adjust to something, you change so that you can fit in, conform, or keep on going. Arriving at a new school almost always requires that you adjust a little. Once you adjust, you'll find you're as happy as you were in your old school.
administer\When you administer something, you give it to others. This can apply to a dose of medicine, an order, a survey, or a punishment. Administer can also mean to run something — such as a school or an office.
Administrating Office\his application
admission\If you pay admission, you're paying a fee in order to attend something, like an event or a movie. After you pay admission to the movie theater, you head straight to the popcorn stand.
admit\When you admit something, you confess that it happened.  It wasn't easy to admit that you'd broken the vase, but how else could you explain that your hand was glued to it?
admonish\To admonish is to scold. If you want to show someone you're not happy with his behavior, admonish him.
ado\Someone who makes a lot of ado about things has a tendency to make them more busy or complicated than they need to be.
adobe\his application
adolescence\The period of time when you physically and emotionally transition from childhood to adulthood is called adolescence. Basically it's when you're old enough to want to be an adult, but young enough that no one takes you seriously!
adopt\You can adopt an air of nonchalance, a fake British accent, or even a stray dog. When you adopt something, you consciously select it and accept it as your own.
adorn\To adorn is to dress something up by decorating it. You might adorn your poncho with fringe or your poodle's dog collar with rhinestones.
advanced\Use the adjective advanced to describe something that's ahead, especially in terms of growth or development. Your plans to build the world's best tree house are at an advanced stage if you're nearly ready to add a roof and invite your friends to visit.
advent\The advent of something means that it's finally here. You might be waiting for the advent of a new iPhone or for the advent of cloning. Don't hold your breath.
adventure\An adventure is an exciting and probably risky trip, effort, or undertaking. Let's go explore the jungle! Don't be scared — it'll be an adventure!
adverse\Steer clear of anything adverse. If it's adverse, it's working against you — like adverse weather conditions or the adverse effects of eating too much sugar.
advertise\The verb advertise means to publicize a service or product in order to try to get you to buy or use it. If you see people eating delicious-looking chocolate in a television commercial, for example, you'll probably want to buy it.
advocate\An advocate (AD-və-kit) is someone who supports a cause, like an advocate for outdoor recess. Advocate (AD-və-kate) is also a verb meaning to speak in favor of, so you can advocate for that outdoor recess by urging your school to play outside!
aerial\Things that are aerial are happening in the air: birds, planes, and missiles are all aerial things.
aerobic\When you run for a mile, and start breathing hard, get your blood pounding and your heart rate up, you are doing aerobic exercise: exercise that depends on and consumes oxygen.
aesthetic\The adjective aesthetic comes in handy when the subject at hand is beauty or the arts. A velvet painting of dogs playing poker might have minimal aesthetic appeal.
affair\If your grandfather was so startled by people shouting "Surprise!" at his birthday party that he had a mild heart attack, you'd probably want to just forget the whole affair. An affair is a specific event.
affection\Affection is the positive feeling you may have or express for other people or things. Your grandma may show her affection for you by pinching your cheek, and you may show your affection for your dog by rubbing her belly.
affirm\To affirm something is to give it a big "YES" or to confirm that it is true.
afflict\To afflict is to cause suffering, pain, or misery. It’s often associated with medical conditions. Carpal Tunnel Syndrome is most likely to afflict someone who spends many hours every day typing on our computers.
afford\To afford means you have enough money or time for something. If you only have ten dollars on you, you can't afford to buy a twenty-dollar hat.
agape\If you’re watching a powerful display of nature such as an avalanche, you might stare at it with your mouth agape, which means your mouth would be wide open in awe. You should close it, before it is full of snow.
agency\his application
aggregate\To aggregate is to collect many units into one. If you're writing a novel, you might create a character who is an aggregate of five or six real people.
aggressive\Someone or something aggressive shows a lot of energy and has a strong impact. After the aggressive salesman stopped them again on their way through the mall, the couple got aggressive and replied in a loud, made-up foreign language until he went away.
agitate\Agitate means to stir up. If you watch a horror movie at bedtime, you may be too agitated to sleep. Movies like that can agitate all sorts of adrenaline responses in the body.
agreeable\his application
airborne\Something that's airborne is flying through the air. A soaring seagull is airborne, and so is a rock launched from a slingshot.
alarm\On a clock, the alarm can be set to go off at a certain time to wake nearby sleepers. You should always check the alarm on the clock at a hotel because a previous guest may have it set to go off in the middle of the night.
alchemist\If you're an alchemist, then you try to change common metals into gold. People have been trying to figure that out for a long time, so you might need to have another job to finance your career as an alchemist.
alert\Alert! Alert! Alert! Did I get your attention? When you are alert, you are awake and ready. When you issue an alert you give warning, alerting people to, or notifying them of, a concern.
alga\primitive chlorophyll-containing mainly aquatic eukaryotic organisms lacking true stems and roots and leaves
algebra\If the math equation you're doing has letters or other symbols that stand for numbers, you're likely doing algebra. You probably took your first algebra class early in your high school years.
alien\Something that's alien is different or foreign. In science fiction, space aliens come from other planets. In reality, illegal aliens come from other countries.
alkali\any of various water-soluble compounds capable of turning litmus blue and reacting with an acid to form a salt and water
allay\The verb allay is used when you want to make something better or eliminate fears and concerns.
allegory\The figurative style known as allegory has nothing to do with alligators — unless you're telling a story where alligators represent evil forces snapping at humanity.
allergy\An allergy is a physical reaction to some specific food or substance. If you have an allergy to cats, they'll make you itchy and swollen no matter how much you love to pet them.
alleviate\Do all these words make your head ache? If so, take an aspirin to alleviate, or relieve, your pain.
allocation\If it is your job to decide how much money goes to three charities, you are in charge of the allocation of your donation. The money each charity gets is their allocation.
alloy\You may have heard of aluminum alloy on a car. What that means is that there is another metal mixed in with the aluminum, to save money and/or to strengthen the wheels. The wheels are an alloy (a mix), rather than pure.
alone\The word alone comes from a combination of the Middle English words "all" and "one," which is really all you need to know to understand the word. A person who is alone is all-in-one; there's no one else around.
alphabet\An alphabet is a set of all the letters in a written language. The letters in an alphabet represent the different sounds in that language. When you sing the A, B, C song, you are singing the English alphabet. Rock on.
alter\After eating too many gingerbread cookies, she no longer fit into her uniform, so she had a seamstress alter it. It looked pretty much the same.
alternate\On a checkerboard, black squares alternate with white ones. As a verb, alternate means to do something in turns. As a noun, an alternate is a replacement.
alternative\When you're facing a fork in the road, you have two possibilities, or alternatives. You could take the left fork and see where it leads, or you could choose the path that goes to the right.
altitude\The noun altitude refers to how high something rises: “The high altitude of the Himalayan mountain range slowed the progress of the hikers.”
aluminum\Aluminum is a relatively light weight type of silver-colored metal. Most soda cans are made out of aluminum.
alumnus\An alumnus is a graduate of a school. You can be an alumnus of a high school, college or university.
amass\Amass means bring together or assemble. It can be a real shock to enter a room and see your amassed friends shouting "Surprise!"
amateur\An amateur is a person who does something for enjoyment, not money, like an amateur who paints as a hobby but earns a living another way.
amid\his application
amino\adjpertaining to or containing any of a group of organic compounds of nitrogen derived from ammonia
ammonia\his application
amnesia\When you have amnesia you can't remember what happened to you in the past. Amnesia is a total or partial memory loss.
amount\An amount is a number, or quantity, of something. If you're surprised by the amount of work you have to do at your new job, you probably didn't expect such a long list of tasks.
ample\Ample describes an abundance of something. An ample supply of apple muffins at the bake sale is a good thing, as is ample legroom in your new van — but if the vet notices your dog's ample waistline, you might have to put Fido on a diet.
amplify\The verb amplify means to crank up the volume. Speakers amplify, or raise, the volume of the noise coming through a microphone so that everyone at the rock show can hear.
amuse\If you enjoy making people laugh, you like to amuse them, which is a good trait to have as long as you don't amuse people during a math test or other solemn occasion.
amusement\Amusement is a feeling of being entertained and happy. Just think about how you feel when you visit an amusement park, and you will get the idea.
analogy\When you draw an analogy between two things, you compare them for the purpose of explanation. The movie character Forrest Gump made a silly analogy famous: "Life is like a box of chocolates."
analysis\Use the noun analysis to refer to the way you understand something by looking at it in different ways and studying its different parts.
analyze\Analyze means to study or examine something carefully in a methodical way. If you analyze your child's report card, you may determine his strength and weaknesses (and how many times he cut class).
anatomy\If you're studying anatomy you're studying animals’ bodies and you're probably dissecting them, too. You might study the anatomy of a pig to see how it relates to human anatomy. You’ll find that only one of them has a snout.
ancestor\An ancestor came before. Your grandmother's grandmother and any relative before her is one of your ancestors.
anchor\On a boat, an anchor is a heavy object attached to a rope. You toss it overboard, it sinks to the bottom, and your vessel doesn't move. Anchor has the sense of what holds something in place.
ancient\Ancient means very old. Sometimes there's a sense of "older than old." My grandmother, bless her soul, lived until she was positively ancient.
angle\Remember all those pesky geometry classes in high school? Then you'll remember measuring the angle or space between two intersecting lines in degrees. If you recall that a right angle measures ninety degrees, give yourself a bonus.
anhydrous\adjwithout water; especially without water of crystallization
animation\his application
announce\Announce means to make something public. Companies announce the release of new products, parents announce the marriages of their children, and school administrators announce changes to the day's schedule over the PA.
annoyed\Have you ever suddenly walked into a cloud of small bugs that buzz and poke at you?  If so, you were probably annoyed.  You might also know humans who make you feel this way.
annual\When something is annual, it happens once a year. An annual holiday party should be a time for fun, but it also can be a sad yearly reminder of the passage of time.
anthropology\Anthropology is the scientific study of the origins of humans, how we have changed over the years, and how we relate to each other, both within our own culture and with people from other cultures.
antibiotic\An antibiotic is a substance used to kill bacteria. If you're coughing up green stuff, the doctor might give you an antibiotic to fight the infection.
anticipate\To anticipate something is to be expecting it. Your dog might be waiting by the door, anticipating his next walk or squirrel chase.
antique\An antique is an old-fashioned thing, like a lamp from the sixties. Anything antique is old or at least old-ish.
apartment\An apartment is a private residence in a building or house that's divided into several separate dwellings. An apartment can be one small room or several.
apocalyptic\The lyrics of a popular song from the 1980’s by the band REM go, “It’s the end of the world as we know it.”  This song’s tune may be catchy but the sentiment is rather apocalyptic — since it refers to the final destruction of the world.
appalling\Something that is appalling is awful or horrible, causing dismay or disgust. It's definitely not appealing.
apparent\Apparent means obvious, but — and this is confusing — it can also mean something that seems to be true but isn't definite. "The train's arrival is apparent — it's in the station — but apparently my friend missed it because she is not getting off."
apparition\If you see something you think might be a ghost, you can call it an apparition to hedge your bets. Apparition doesn't commit you in the same way the word ghost does—and saying that you've seen one won't cause you to be committed.
appeal\Appeal means "to ask, or address." If you appeal to someone's better nature, you're asking them for mercy. If a shirt doesn't appeal to you, you could also say it doesn't "speak" to you, or more simply, you don't like it.
appear\If something appears, it comes into view. Rub a magic lamp and a genie will appear. If that's the case, she will grant you three wishes.
appetite\If you've filled your plate three times, you must have a strong appetite.  I hope you still have room for dessert.
applaud\To applaud is to show approval, encouragement, or appreciation. You can applaud by clapping your hands at a performance, or you can applaud with just your mouth, as when you tell someone "I applaud your decision to start exercising."
applicable\If something's applicable, it matters in a certain case: it's relevant. If we're going to have rules,\r\nshouldn't they be applicable to everyone?
applicant\his application
appointment\An appointment is a preset arrangement to meet, like a dentist’s appointment, an appointment with your accountant, or an appointment to have your palm read.
appreciate\If you appreciate something, you recognize its value. We can all appreciate how refreshing cold lemonade is on a sweltering summer day.
appreciative\If you do a friend a favor, your friend will probably be appreciative, meaning grateful. Use appreciative to describe words and actions that are positive, either out of gratitude or respect.
apprentice\An apprentice is someone who learns a trade. An apprentice farmer is paid very little but has the chance to learn farming by watching and doing.
apprise\To apprise someone about something is to fill them in, to give them the scoop. If someone in your immediate family wins the mega-bucks lottery, you want to be the first one to be apprised of that event!
approach\To approach is to get near something. An airplane is cleared for a final approach just as the wheels approach the landing strip.
appropriate\Something appropriate is correct and fits the situation. A sweater-vest with reindeer on it is appropriate holiday apparel, even if it's totally embarrassing.
approve\his application
approximate\To approximate is to calculate the value of something based on informed knowledge. A computer program can approximate the value of a house based on square footage, number of rooms, year built, and other relevant factors.
aquarium\his application
aquatic\his application
arbitrary\Something that's arbitrary seems like it's chosen at random instead of following a consistent rule. Team members would dislike their coach using a totally arbitrary method to pick starting players.
archaeology\If your idea of excitement is sifting dirt to find bits of pottery, chances are that you're an archaeology enthusiast. Archaeology is all about understanding the past by analyzing material culture — that is, objects shaped by human hands.
architect\A person who designs buildings is an architect. If you become an architect, you'll be responsible for drawing the blueprints, planning the work, and sometimes even overseeing the construction of a building.
arid\Arid is so dry that nothing will grow. Death Valley in California features an arid climate, which is why it's called Death Valley and not Life Valley.
arithmetic\Arithmetic is another word for math, specifically the areas of math having to do with numbers and calculating.
arrange\Think it might be fun to be a party planner? These highly organized people arrange everything from invitations to music, food, even the lighting in the room, meaning they put everything in order.
array\An array is a display of something — usually something varied. You might encounter an array of cereal brands in the cereal aisle of the grocery store. Your head says to choose the Crunchy Oats 'n' Bran, but your heart wants the Sugar-Coated Chocopuffs.
arrival\An arrival is an entrance or an appearance — the act of showing up somewhere. Your arrival at your grandparents' house will no doubt be marked by great enthusiasm and many hugs.
articulate\To articulate is to say something. And, if you say it well, someone might praise you by saying you are articulate. Confused yet? It's all in the pronunciation.
artifact\An artifact is a man-made object that has some kind of cultural significance. If you find a 12th-century vase, it's an artifact of that time. Don't drop it!
artificial\From fake flowers to faux food flavors, our world is full of things that are artificial –- that is, produced by humans rather than by nature.
artisan\An artisan has both the creativity and the skill to make a product. Wandering around a local craft fair, you will often see artisans selling handicrafts like pot holders or beaded jewelry.
artistic\The adjective artistic describes people who are creative or creations called "art." While you might not consider the sculptor Oldenburg's inflatable toilet as "art," recreating something ordinary in a unique way is very artistic.
ascending\If something is ascending, it's rising or moving up. At a hot air balloon race, you'll see dozens of ascending balloons.
ascribe\Ascribe means to give credit to, like if you ascribe the A you got on your group project to the hard work of your partners!
ash\Ash is what's left after something has been burned by a fire. You need to clean the ash out of a wood stove or fireplace every once in a while.
ask\To ask is to pose a question or request something. If you say "What time is lunch?", then you're asking a question.
aspect\Aspect means a part or feature of something. If you are going to vote for a candidate, you should first learn about the various aspects of her political agenda.
assemble\To assemble means to bring together, as in people or parts. The volunteers assembled to assemble the bikes for the needy kids.
assert\Asserting is all about standing up for what you believe. You might assert an opinion, your innocence, or even your authority over someone else.
assign\To assign is to specify something or someone for a specific purpose. If your sisters fight over whose turn it is to sit in the front seat, your parents may have to assign turns.
associate\As a verb, associate can mean to make a connection between things or concepts. You might associate the smell of lemons with summer memories of selling lemonade. Or, with polishing your furniture with Lemon Pledge.
assorted\An assorted group of things are different from each other. Assorted presents could include a gift certificate, a bike, and a stuffed animal.
assume\Assume isn't only used to mean "accept as truth without checking"; it also means "take on the form of." It might be safer if you don't assume that the vampire standing in front of you isn't merely a person assuming that form.
assure\If you assure your boss that you’ll finish your project by Tuesday, you are make a promise or commitment to have it done by Tuesday.
asteroid\An asteroid is a large, irregularly shaped object in space that orbits our Sun. If one of these giant rocks ends up on a collision course with Earth, we are in for big trouble.
asthenia\an abnormal loss of strength
astronomical\If you lie down on a big field or on a rooftop and look up, the sky is so wide and high, it is astronomical in size — bigger than huge. Everything in that sky, including the stars and planets, is also astronomical because it is part of a science called astronomy.
astronomy\Astronomy is the science that looks up: at stars, at other planets, at solar systems, at galaxies, and at everything else in the universe.
asymmetrical\his application
athlete\An athlete is someone who trains for and competes in sporting events, as a professional or just for fun, like an athlete who bowls on a team, runs in local 5K races, or wins a gold medal at the Olympics.
atmosphere\his application
atomic\Something that has to do with atoms is atomic. Atomic structure, for example, means the way an atom is organized and what it's made of.
atomistic\adjdivided into separate and often disparate elements
atrocious\Atrocious is a great word, but there's nothing good about its meaning or its synonyms: horrible, ugly, abominable, dreadful, unspeakable, and monstrous, to name just a few.
attach\Use the verb attach when you need to join things together, like a stamp that you attach to a letter.
attain\The verb attain is all about reaching some mark of achievement.  You can attain a goal. You can even attain a destination.
attempt\To attempt is to make an effort. You may attempt to read a book, but if you fail, no harm. If you attempt to jump from one building to the next and fail . . . . Ouch.
attendance\Attendance has to do with being present at something, like work or school. If you never miss a day, you have perfect attendance.
attest\To attest is to prove or declare to be true. For example: the fact that you aced the SAT attests to the strength of your vocabulary.
attorney\An attorney is a lawyer. Attorneys sue people, defend people, and serve as experts on the law.
attract\To attract is to exert a force that draws something in, like the way a magnet attracts a paper clip. You might know the phrase, "opposites attract." This means you might be drawn to a personality type that is completely unlike yours.
attractive\Anybody or anything that's attractive is visually pleasing or draws you in.
attribute\An attribute is a quality or characteristic given to a person, group, or some other thing. Your best attribute might be your willingness to help others, like when you stopped traffic so the duck family could cross the street.
auction\In an auction, items are sold without price tags––whoever bids the highest gets to buy it, whether it’s a painting, a car, or a set of old dishes.
audience\An audience can be people watching a performance, or an opportunity to speak with someone important, like an audience with your favorite actor at a "meet and greet" event.
audio\Audio means sound. If you turn up the volume and turn down the bass on your TV, you adjust the audio.
audit\An audit is a thorough counting, review, or assessment of a situation or collection of things. Before baking cookies, you'd better make an audit of the ingredients available to see whether there is enough sugar and butter.
audition\An audition is a tryout for a role in a movie, orchestra, or play. If you bomb the audition, you probably won't make it into the cast.
auditorium\Whenever you check out a concert or a play, you sit in an auditorium — that is, the section of a theater or concert hall reserved for the audience. You can try sitting on the stage, but you'll probably be thrown out.
augment\his application
auspicious\Use the adjective auspicious for a favorable situation or set of conditions. If you start a marathon by falling flat on your face, that's not an auspicious start.
Australia\the smallest continent; between the South Pacific and the Indian Ocean
authority\If you have the authority to do something, you have the right or power to do it. You are the big cheese. Or, if you know more about a topic than most, you are an authority on that topic.
authorize\To authorize is to give official approval or clearance for something. Authorizing can also delegate power to someone.
automatic\If someone asks, “How are you?” and you reply, “Fine,” without really thinking about it, that’s an automatic reply. Something that’s automatic is done without thinking, almost as if you’re a well-programmed machine.
automobile\An automobile is a car: a vehicle with four wheels and an internal combustion engine. The automobile is one of the most common ways to travel.
available\"Is this seat  available?" "Are you  available, or are you married?" As you can tell from these two examples, available means "not busy or not taken."
avalanche\Look out below! An avalanche is a whole lot of falling snow and ice. Also, life can feel like an avalanche when things get hectic.
avenue\An avenue is a street, especially a wide one lined with trees. An avenue is also any approach to doing something. For example, this web site might be a new avenue you have found for learning words.
avert\To avert is to turn away or to prevent. You might avert your gaze or avert a disaster — either way, you are avoiding something.
aviation\If it has to do with flying or operating a plane, it has to do with aviation. If someone tells you that he's in aviation school, that means he is learning how to fly a plane.
avoid\If you avoid drinking coffee right before bed because it tends to keep you awake and makes you jittery, that means that you stay away from coffee at night.
aware\To be aware means to know about. If you're aware of a sled zooming towards you, move! And if you’re aware that the other kids wish they had sleds, share yours. That’s being socially aware. Well done.
awareness\Awareness is the state of knowing something, such as the awareness that the sun comes up every morning.
awful\Describe something that is exceptionally bad as awful, but be careful: Saying your mom's cooking is awful may be truthful, but it's also likely to get you a frying pan upside the head.
awkward\If you are awkward, chances are you are uncomfortable. You could feel socially awkward, like when you forget the host's name. Or, you may feel physically awkward, like when you trip on your way to the podium.
axis\An axis is a straight line, sometimes seen, sometimes not, that is important in mathematics, art, science and our survival. The most famous axis is the one the earth spins around, giving us the 24-hour day.
azure\Looking for a fancier way to describe the deep blue sky on a crisp fall day or the jewel-toned waters of the Caribbean? Try azure.
Babylonian\an inhabitant of ancient Babylon
backbiting\vsay mean things
backlighting\his application
bacteria\Bacteria are microscopic living organisms, usually one-celled, that can be found everywhere. They can be dangerous, such as when they cause infection, or beneficial, as in the process of fermentation (such as in wine) and that of decomposition.
bad\When something is not good, it's bad. A bad dog goes to the bathroom in the house, and bad milk has gone sour.
bake\To bake something is to cook it in a hot oven. When you bake a batch of blueberry muffins, your whole house smells delicious.
balcony\A balcony is a porch or platform that extends from an upper floor of a building. Your apartment might have a balcony with a view of a city park.
bald\Use the adjective bald to describe someone who has no hair on his head. If your uncle has a smooth, hairless scalp, he's bald.
banner\As you listen to your guests sing to you on your birthday, you may see a long banner, or sign, hanging from the ceiling and announcing in sparkly letters, "Happy Birthday to You!"
barb\Whether it is a spike on the wire atop a security fence or a mean remark someone said about you, a barb can hurt. When you encounter either kind of barb, you should stay away.
barbecue\A barbecue is an outdoor party where food is cooked on a grill or over a fire. Your family might host a barbecue every summer to celebrate the end of the school year.
bare\When you kick off your shoes to walk on the beach, you are enjoying the feeling of your bare feet in the warm sand. The adjective bare describes something or someone that is naked or unclothed.
barge\A barge is a big, flat boat that can transport heavy goods over water. You might see a barge carrying a load of new cars down a river.
bark\A bark is the loud, sharp sound a dog makes. Seals also bark, and people sometimes bark with laughter or bark out commands.
barn\A barn is an outbuilding on a farm used to keep animals or crops safe and dry. A farmer might store hay in the upper part of a barn, and have stalls for horses in the main section.
barrel\A barrel is a big container used to store liquids. If you're moving a barrel, it's best to tip it on its side because its shape bulges at the center, so that it's easy to roll.
barren\Drive through a forest that's just been destroyed by a fire, and you'll get an idea of what barren means — stripped of vegetation and devoid of life.
barrier\Barriers are walls, either physical or metaphorical. They can block movement — the Great Wall of China was a barrier to block invading forces from entering. A window shade is a light barrier. Failing English is a barrier to getting into Harvard.
barriers\Barriers are walls, either physical or metaphorical. They can block movement — the Great Wall of China was a barrier to block invading forces from entering. A window shade is a light barrier. Failing English is a barrier to getting into Harvard.
barter\If you make a deal with your brother to change the oil in his car in exchange for one of his video games, what you’ve just done is barter — or trade goods and services.
basin\A basin is a container that holds water and is used for washing, but you probably just call it your bathroom sink.
battery\Battery is (among other things) physical attack or assault: “He was arrested for battery after he hit his manager several times on the head with a large flashlight.”
BC\advbefore the Christian era; used following dates before the supposed year Christ was born
bead\A bead is a small bauble or jewel with a hole through its middle for stringing on a necklace or bracelet. You can make your own jewelry by stringing colorful beads on a long cord.
beak\When you see a bird pecking around in your backyard, it’s using its beak to probe the ground for food. A beak is the hard, pointed structure sticking out from a bird’s face.
beam\A beam is a long board that's used to hold up a roof or doorway. The beams in your kitchen ceiling help support the upstairs floor just above it.
beat\Beat can mean “hit repeatedly,” “stir vigorously,” or “defeat.” A beat can also be a rhythmic pulse, a physical blow, or a funky poet. In terms of number of definitions, it’s hard to beat this little word.
beaver\A beaver is a water- and land-dwelling animal with a very broad tail, short fur, and prominent front teeth. Beavers are famous for their ability to build dams across rivers and streams.
behave\The way you act or conduct yourself is how you behave. Teachers and parents often tell kids Behave!
behavior\Behavior refers to how you conduct yourself. Generally, it’s wise to engage in good behavior, even if you're really bored.
beleaguer\Beleaguer means to pester or badger with persistence. A babysitter might find annoying the children who beleaguer her with requests for candy, cookies, games, and piggyback rides all at the same time.
belt\A belt is an accessory you wear around your waist that helps hold your pants up. Other types of belts can hold tools or weapons.
bemuse\To bemuse is to confuse or puzzle. You could bemuse your teacher by writing an essay as a series of haikus, but don’t. Usually a bemused teacher is not a happy one.
benefactor\Every school, museum, and struggling artist is in search for a generous benefactor, or someone to provide the financial means to keep everything running smoothly.
beneficial\If it's beneficial, then it's good for you — or for something. Studying is beneficial to your grades. Exercise is beneficial to your health.
benefit\A benefit is something that helps you, whether in the form of health insurance provided by an employer, welfare given by the government to those in need, or the benefit of the doubt extended to you by a friend.
benign\Someone or something that is benign is gentle, kind, mild, or unharmful: a benign soul wouldn't hurt a fly.
besiege\To besiege means to attack with an army, or to pester with many requests. When all your teachers ask you to hand in assignments on the same day, you can end up feeling besieged.
beverage\A beverage is any type of drink. It's something you might offer a guest in your house; it's also the favorite moniker of companies that manufacture both soda and juice — they call themselves beverage companies.
bewigged\his application
bias\Use the noun bias to mean a preference for one thing over another, especially an unfair one.
bigot\A bigot is someone who doesn't tolerate people of different races or religions. If you have an uncle who is a bigot and tells racist jokes at Thanksgiving, you may need to talk to him and tell him it's not okay.
bill\When thinking about all the many meanings of the simple word bill think of the bill you get in a restaurant. A piece of paper that someone pushes toward you, right?
bind\If you're in a bind, you have been hindered by some situation. You'll find yourself in a bind if you agree to bring dessert to a party, only to realize that you're out of fruit, sugar, and chocolate chips.
bio\his application
biography\A biography is an account of somebody's life written by somebody else, complete with details of the most important parts.
bison\A bison is a large, shaggy, hoofed animal. Bison are mostly native to North America, though there is one species found in Western Europe and Central Asia.
blade\A blade is a very sharp metal edge of a tool. A good cooking knife should have its blade sharpened regularly.
bland\When you have a nasty cold and you’re very congested, food can taste unappealingly bland. That means dull, flavorless, or just plain “blah.”
blanket\A blanket is a large piece of material that keeps you warm when you're in bed or taking a nap on the couch. Many small children have a favorite blanket that provides not just warmth, but comfort.
blast\A blast is an explosion, or a sudden sharp noise. When you blast someone, you either shoot them, or hit them with a verbal explosion––a tirade of criticism.
bleach\To bleach is to whiten, or to strip of color. After many summers of use, the sun will bleach your favorite beach towel.
blend\If you blend red and blue, you get purple. To blend is to mix together thoroughly. If you put this color in your hair, you'll blend with the people at a punk rock concert!
blip\a radar echo displayed so as to show the position of a reflecting surface
blizzard\A blizzard is a large winter storm, characterized by heavy snowfall and accompanied by high winds. We're not talking flurry or a snowsquall. It's the kind of snow storm you read about.
block\A block is a painted wooden cube that kids build with, or a squarish chunk of anything, like a block of cheese or cement. And if you block someone, you prevent them from going past by getting in the way.
blockade\A blockade is an obstacle that stands between you and something you're trying to reach. After a robbery, police might set up a blockade around the neighborhood to catch the thief.
bloom\A bloom is a flower. You might mark the beginning of spring by the very first bloom you see in your garden.
blossom\The flowering part of a plant or tree that will form the seeds or fruit is called a blossom and synonyms include bloom and flower. The noun can also refer to the state of such flowering. You shouldn't miss cherry blossom time in Washington, D.C.
blow\To blow is to create a burst or puff of air. When chilly breezes start to blow, it's time to close your windows.
blown\adjbeing moved or acted upon by moving air or vapor
blur\To blur is to make or become unfocused and fuzzy. Crying hard can cause your vision to blur until you wipe your tears away.
boar\an uncastrated male hog
board\A board is a plank or surface, sometimes having buttons or controls. You can cut vegetables on a cutting board, post a flyer on a bulletin board, or cause a power outage on a circuit board.
boast\When you boast you are bragging about yourself and your accomplishments (or maybe those of your family), often to the boredom and annoyance of your audience.
bode\The verb bode suggests forecasting. Something bodes well when the clues or signs imply a favorable outcome. But if something bodes ill, you’d better watch out!
bog\You'd be pretty soggy by morning if you accidentally set your tent up in a bog. A bog is a swampy kind of ground made up mostly of decomposing plants and mosses.
bold\Someone who's bold is daring and brave. You might show how bold you are by climbing onto the roof of your house, or by speaking up when you see someone being treated unfairly.
bond\You and your best friend have a bond that allows you to trust each other with all your thoughts and secrets. A bond is a connection between two things.
bonhomie\If you are known for your bonhomie, that's a good thing. It means that you are a cheerful friendly sort of person. Keep it up.
bony\Someone who's bony is very thin. Your cat may have been plump when he was young, and become bony as he got older.
boom\A boom is a very loud, deep sound that echoes. The distant boom of fireworks might spook your nervous dog.
boost\his application
borrow\The word borrow means to take something and use it temporarily. You can borrow a book from the library, or borrow twenty bucks from your mom, or even borrow an idea from your friend.
botany\The study of plants is called botany. Each climate has its own particular botany, so if you study desert growth, you might focus on such plants as cactus and sage, while if you're in the jungle you'd study the lush growth there.
bottleneck\A bottleneck is a type of traffic jam, when cars get stuck or slowed down in a narrow part of the roadway. You might leave work two hours later than usual to avoid a bottleneck.
boulder\A boulder is a rock — a big one.
bounce\Bounce is a word for an up and down movement or recovery — like a ball's bounce on the pavement or the stock market's rise after a crash.
bound\To bound is to jump or hop — usually as you run. Bound can also mean to go or to plan to go, especially to a certain destination, as in being bound for New York or homeward-bound.
boundary\If you play a sport you are familiar with the term "in bounds," which refers to the boundary, or limits of the playing field that the players must stay within. It is also the outer limits of any space.
boxing\Boxing is a sport that involves strategically punching an opponent while defending yourself from their return punches. Some amateurs practice boxing as a way to stay in shape.
brach\his application
brack\his application
brand\If your friend buys her jeans based on the brand, it means that the name on the label of her pants is very important to her. A brand is a product name.
brass\Brass is a shiny, gold-colored metal that is an alloy of zinc and copper. You'll see brass everywhere once you start looking: in doorknobs, lamps and light fixtures, zippers, and tools.
breakthrough\An amazing discovery or a huge amount of progress can be called a breakthrough. The discovery of penicillin in 1928 was a breakthrough for modern medicine.
breed\To breed is to have babies, whether you’re a human or a hermit crab. A breed is also a specific type of a domesticated species, like a poodle or Great Dane.
breeze\A breeze is a light, cool wind. One of the nicest things about being at the beach on a hot summer day is feeling the gentle breeze off the water.
brief\Something brief is short and to the point. If you make a brief visit, you don't stay long. If you make a brief statement, you use few words. If you wear brief shorts, you are showing a little too much leg.
brighten\To brighten is to make something lighter, the way you brighten your back yard with glowing patio lights or brighten up your gloomy bedroom by painting the walls yellow.
brilliance\a light within the field of vision that is brighter than the brightness to which the eyes are adapted
brilliant\Brilliant describes something super bright, like intense lights at a football stadium, a super sparkly diamond, or the student who graduates from Harvard at age 13.
brittle\Something brittle is easily broken. Do you have brittle bones? Then no football or rugby for you.
brochure\An organization wishing to advertise its products or services will often create a brochure, a small booklet or folded paper giving brief details about what it's selling. It usually includes illustrations and is made to be eye-catching and easily read.
Bronze Age\(archeology) a period between the Stone and Iron Ages, characterized by the manufacture and use of bronze tools and weapons
bronze\an alloy of copper and tin and sometimes other elements; also any copper-base alloy containing other elements in place of tin
brook\A brook is a small stream. On a hot day, you might enjoy wading in a babbling brook. As a verb, brook is a rather stuffy word for "put up with." The lord of the manor might say, "I will brook no trespassing on my land."
brush\Use the noun brush when you want to refer to a quick, light touch. If you are comforting someone you don't know well, you can give their arm a quick brush to show sympathy.
bubble\A bubble is a floating ball of air. You can also blow a bubble with gum. If you’re in your own little bubble, you’re living in a fantasy, separated from the rest of the world by a thin layer of your imagination.
buck\A buck is an adult male deer, antelope, reindeer, or rabbit. You can usually tell a buck by its large horns. If it’s a bunny, you just have to ask. A buck is also slang for an American dollar.
buckle\A buckle is a clasp or fastener, such as the one on the end of a belt. In the old days, not only belts but also shoes had buckles.
bud\The young part of a plant that's almost ready to flower or unfurl new leaves is called the bud. As a verb, bud also means to grow or develop.
buddy\A buddy is a good friend. Your best buddy in elementary school may still be a good buddy when you graduate from high school.
budget\A budget is a sum of money set aside and divided up to cover particular expenses. Like allotting certain amounts for food, rent, movies, and manicures every month to make sure you don't run out of cash.
buffalo\A buffalo is a large, ox-like animal with horns and shaggy fur. In North America, a buffalo is another name for a bison.
bulb\A bulb is the roundish, tear-shaped part of some plants. If you plant a bulb, a flower will pop up. Bulb is also short for light bulb. Don’t try planting that kind, though, because lamps don't grow on trees.
bulk\Don’t be intimidated by the bulk of the dictionary on your desk. If you look in it, you’ll see that bulk is a small word used to talk about large things.
bulletin\A brief news report or statement that's written or spoken is a bulletin. A TV reporter might read a bulletin announcing the winner of a presidential election, for example.
bump\A bump is an area that bulges out, like a pregnant woman's stomach. To bump someone is to knock into them.
bunch\A group or cluster of something is a bunch. It could be a bunch of people or a bunch of grapes. If you pick a bunch of bananas, you might end up being followed by a bunch of monkeys.
bundle\his application
bureau\When you put your socks away, you'll most likely put them in a bureau, or a chest of drawers used for storing clothes. Hopefully you've washed them.
burgeon\his application
burrow\Rabbits live in a burrow or a set of tunnels under the earth. They make these tunnels by burrowing, or digging holes with their bodies.
bye\If you say, "Bye!" you mean "farewell" or "so long." In other words, bye is a shorter way to say, "Goodbye."
bystander\Someone who observes an event without taking part in it is a bystander. The police may want to interview any bystanders who witnessed a robbery, to get a description of the robber.
cabin\A small wooden hut or cottage can be called a cabin, especially if it's in a remote or wooded place. Your grandfather's cabin on a lake might be your favorite place to visit in the summer.
cabinet\A cabinet is a piece of furniture that has doors and drawers and is often used for storage, like a kitchen cabinet that holds your drinking glasses and plates.
cable\A cable can be a strong and thick hemp or steel rope, or a conductor for sending electrical or optical signals.
cactus\his application
cadge\To cadge is to plead or beg for something. A hungry child might cadge an extra cookie from her dad while he's baking.
cafeteria\A cafeteria is a restaurant where you serve yourself, then pay a cashier. Most schools have a cafeteria serving up sloppy joes and square pizza.
cage\A cage is a structure that keeps an animal captive. If you decide to raise a tiger in your bedroom, it's best to have a sturdy cage.
calcaneus\the largest tarsal bone; forms the human heel
calcium\a white metallic element that burns with a brilliant light; the fifth most abundant element in the earth&#039;s crust; an important component of most plants and animals
calculate\To calculate is to compute, by figuring out a mathematical equation or a situation. You can calculate your monthly student loan payments, or calculate the risk of not paying them on time.
calculus\Calculus is a way of using math to study changes in a system. Moral calculus, on the other hand, is a way of measuring morals and ethics, like choosing the lesser of two evils.
calendar\A calendar is a chart that organizes the year into days, weeks or months. It's also a list of appointments or activities, like the calendar for the club that lists when the bands are playing.
calf\The word calf can mean either a baby cow or bull, or the area of the back of your leg between your ankle and knee.
calibration\the act of checking or adjusting (by comparison with a standard) the accuracy of a measuring instrument
callus\A callus is a spot where your skin becomes rough and thick. After wearing flip flops every day, all summer long, you'll probably have a callus between your toes.
camouflage\To camouflage is to disguise, and a camouflage is that which disguises — like the leaf-colored and patterned uniforms worn by soldiers who want to blend in with their natural surroundings.
campaign\A campaign is any series of actions or events that are meant to achieve a particular result, like an advertising campaign of television commercials and Internet ads that tries to convince kids to buy bubble gum-flavored toothpaste.
canal\A canal is a long, man-made strip of water used for irrigation or boat access to a bigger body of water, like the famous Erie Canal, which connects the Hudson River to Lake Erie.
cancan't\his application
candidacy\the campaign of a candidate to be elected
candidate\A candidate is someone running for political office — or anyone being considered for a position or opportunity of some sort.
cannibalism\Cannibalism is when people eat people, or another animal eats that type of animal.
canopy\his application
canvas\Canvas is a heavy, coarse fabric artists paint on. It's also used to make sails, shoes, tents, or comfy director's chairs. It's a full-service fabric!
canyon\A canyon is a deep, narrow valley surrounded by tall cliffs. Because a canyon is often very deep, be very cautious when standing on the rocky cliffs above.
capability\A capability is something a person or a thing is able to do. It's hard to find a cell phone that doesn't include other capabilities, like taking pictures or storing MP3s.
capacity\Capacity describes your ability to do something or the amount something can hold. If your bird cage is at full capacity, you can't stuff one more feathered friend in there without causing birdie claustrophobia.
cape\Superman is easily recognizable by his red cape, a sleeveless garment that hangs from his shoulders and rustles in the wind when he flies.
capillary\You are probably most familiar with the word capillary as a minute vessel that transports blood to larger vessels in the body, but a capillary can actually mean any tiny tubelike device that moves a liquid from point to point.
capitation\a tax levied on the basis of a fixed amount per person
captious\If someone tends to be hypercritical and find fault with everything, you can describe that person as captious. Try not to be described as a captious person yourself, however. No one likes a carping individual!
captive\A captive is something that has been captured and can’t escape, like a prisoner of war or a panda in a zoo.
carbon\his application
cardiac\Cardiac describes anything that's connected or related to the heart. During a cardiac exam, a doctor listens to your heartbeat and takes your pulse.
cardinal\A cardinal is a bright red songbird, and the word also refers to the bird's crimson color. In Catholicism, a cardinal is a high-ranking bishop. In math, you use cardinal numbers to count. A cardinal rule is one that is central and should not be broken.
caress\To caress someone or something means to stroke it gently in a loving or affectionate manner. Don't you love to caress the soft fur of your pet hamster or cat?
cargo\Cargo refers to goods carried by a large vehicle, like a plane, ship, train, or truck. See a giant truck on the highway piled high with boxes, lumber, or new cars? It's carrying cargo.
carnivore\A carnivore is something that feeds on the flesh of animals. “Did you know that cute little baby seals are carnivores? They eat penguins!”
carp\his application
cart\A cart is a vehicle with wheels that's pulled by an animal, a person, or by another vehicle. You could attach a cart to your dog and teach him to pull it around.
cartilage\Cartilage is the strong but bendable tissue found in various parts of your body, such as the joints. Your outer ear is made of cartilage, which is why you can pull on and bend it.
carve\When you cut a design into a piece of wood or marble, you carve it. Headstone engravers carve people's names and the dates of their births and deaths into gravestones.
cascade\Think of a cascade as something suddenly falling, tumbling down in a rush.
cascara\dried bark of the cascara buckthorn used as a laxative
cassette\A cassette is an audiotape, for recording or listening to sound. Before CDs were invented in the 1980s, many people bought their favorite music albums on cassettes.
cast-iron\adjextremely robust
cast\A cast is the group of actors who make up a film or stage play. And the act of being chosen for the part? Well, they were cast by the director. That's showbiz for you.
castle\A castle is a huge, grand home where a king or queen might live. Almost all castles are also fortified against attacks by enemy armies.
catalog\A catalog is a book that lists many things: the most common type of catalog is for a store.
catalyst\A catalyst is an event or person causing a change. Getting kicked out of your parents' house might be a catalyst for becoming more independent.
catastrophe\A catastrophe is a disaster. If a wedding reception is disrupted by a fistfight between the bride and her new mother-in-law, you could call the occasion a catastrophe.
category\A category is a group of things that share some commonality. Think of the game show "Jeopardy!," and how each column is a different category of questions — like "Literary Characters" or "Potent Potables."
caterpillar\A caterpillar is a fuzzy, worm-like insect that transforms into a butterfly or a moth. Many caterpillars are striped and colorful.
caught\When you catch something, you grasp it or seize it in your hands, the way you catch a basketball when your friend throws it to you.
cautious\Cautious, like careful, means you're on guard. You should be cautious crossing a busy street, or cautious borrowing your sister's new shoes without asking.
cavil\If your only cavil to your family's trip to Disney World is that you don't like airline food, you're not representing the anti-Mickey side of the argument very well. A cavil is a small or petty objection.
cavity\A cavity is a carved-out space inside something solid like a wall or a tooth. If you have a cavity, you have a hole in your tooth, and it’s time to go to the dentist for a filling. Lucky you.
cease\To cease is to stop or end. Your gym teacher may have trained the class so well that all chattering will cease every time she blows her whistle.
celebrate\To celebrate means to mark a special day, event, or holiday. You might celebrate a birthday, a religious holiday, or even the anniversary of a famous battle.
celebrated\If something is celebrated, it's famous. Your town's celebrated restaurant — the one everybody knows and talks about — might be a modest barbecue joint.
celestial\What is the difference between a celestial being and a celestial body? The first is something  living such as an alien or an angel, whereas the latter is an inanimate object such as a star or a planet. Both, however, are from the sky.
cell\Cell has several different meanings, but all of them are similar. Whether it's in a prison or in your blood (or even in the political landscape), a cell is a small room, space, or unit.
censorious\Censorious, an adjective, describes people who are so critical, they find something wrong in everything. Do not let censorious guests come to your next dinner party!
census\If you live in the U.S., every ten years you'll participate in a census, a process for counting people. The information collected is used to plan for schools, transportation, social services people will need, and also for determining congressional districts.
centaur\Have you ever seen a centaur at the zoo? I doubt it! It's a mythological creature that's half-man, half- horse.
centennial\If your parents are celebrating their centennial wedding anniversary, make sure you throw them a really big party. Centennial is a word to describe something that has lasted for 100 years — so your parents have been married an unusually long time!
ceramic\Something that's ceramic is made out of clay and baked in a kiln until it's very hard. If you sign up for a pottery class, you will almost certainly make ceramic bowls.
cereal\Cereal is a grassy grain used for food, like corn or wheat. But if someone offers you a bowl of cereal, don’t expect a pile of grass. Cereal is also a popular breakfast food served in a bowl with milk.
ceremony\A ceremony is a formal event held on special occasions such as weddings and graduations.  Even if an occasion isn’t traditionally honored with a ceremony, you can hold one anyway; we know your cat’s third birthday is important.
certificate\A certificate is a paper or document that proves some fact. Your most prized possession might be the certificate you got when you became a black belt in karate.
chafe\To chafe is to irritate or annoy. If your shoes chafe you, they rub your skin raw. Ouch. If you chafe at the suggestion that you should be studying more, the suggestion rubs you the wrong way.
chainstore\his application
chamber\A chamber is an enclosed space, often where a specific event usually takes place — such as a sleeping chamber or a torture chamber.
champion\A champion is a winner, or someone who's really good at something. If you are a champion chess player, you are a superstar! When crowds sing Queen's "We Are the Champions" at football games, they are celebrating the fact that their team won.
championship\A championship is a contest where a champion — an ultimate winner — is decided.
channel\A channel is a passageway, a means of access for a thing, a communication, or an idea.
chaos\Chaos is a state of extreme confusion and disorder. Putting a dozen dogs and a dozen cats in the same room would probably lead to utter chaos.
chapel\A chapel is a place of worship. It's usually smaller than a church, and it has its own altar.
character\When Martin Luther King, Jr. said he looked forward to the day when all Americans would be judged solely "by the content of their character," he was talking about a person's essential qualities.
characteristic\If something is a characteristic of someone or something, it is a feature you would expect. A characteristic of classical-style architecture is large stone columns. A characteristic of poodles is their pom-pom like tails.
characterize\To characterize someone is to describe them in a certain way, to try to pin down his or her personality. If you say your dad is stingy, you are characterizing him as a miser.
charcoal\Charcoal is the black substance left over when wood is heated in the absence of oxygen. You can cook with charcoal by burning it in your backyard grill.
chart\Whether it's a kind of graph, a map, or even a piece of music, a chart is a visual display of information. As a verb, chart means to make that kind of display.
charter\What do rock gods do when they travel? They charter their own plane, of course. Charter means you rent or lease a particular service or object. Anyone can charter something, though lesser mortals tend to limit themselves to buses.
checked\adjpatterned with alternating squares of color
cheer\A cheer is what you shout at a sporting event when you cheer your team on, showing your enthusiasm and support. Often there's a lot of cheer or good spirits at these games, unless of course your favorite team loses.
Cheerup\his application
chief\his application
chill\A sharp burst of cold air or icy temperatures is a chill. The chill of a January day in New England might make you dream of moving to New Mexico.
chilled\A sharp burst of cold air or icy temperatures is a chill. The chill of a January day in New England might make you dream of moving to New Mexico.
chimpanzee\intelligent somewhat arboreal ape of equatorial African forests
chip\If a small flake of your purple nail polish breaks off, you might describe it as a chip, or a tiny piece. You might also say, "Shoot, I always seem to chip my nails."
chiropodist\A chiropodist is a doctor who specializes in feet. In other words, a chiropodist is a podiatrist.
chlorine\a common nonmetallic element belonging to the halogens; best known as a heavy yellow irritating toxic gas; used to purify water and as a bleaching agent and disinfectant; occurs naturally only as a salt (as in sea water)
choir\A choir is group of singers, often gathered for church ceremonies. If you love to sing but don't fancy a solo turn on a TV talent show, perhaps joining a choir would satisfy you.
cholesterol\Cholesterol is a naturally-occurring steroid found in animal tissues. It's important for healthy cell membranes and other functions, but its waxy makeup makes it a danger as a high concentration could build up and block arteries.
choreograph\To choreograph is to make a dance, designing each move for a dancer to perform. Some dancers choreograph their own dances, although usually a choreographer does it.
choreographer\someone who creates new dances
chorus\A chorus is a group of singers or that catchy part of a song that repeats several times.
chromosome\A chromosome is a strand of DNA that is encoded with genes. In most cells, humans have 22 pairs of these chromosomes  plus the two sex chromosomes (XX in females and XY in males) for a total of 46.
chronical\his application
chunk\a compact mass
circuit\A circuit is a circular path. It could be the circuit of an electric current or the route of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. If you’re promoting your new book, you’ll be making the talk show circuit.
circular\If something is circular, it has a round shape. You might take a circular route on your jog, running all the way around the park.
circulation\The word circulation refers to the movement of blood through your body's blood vessels and heart. It can also mean free movement in a more general sense, as in the circulation of news, money, or even library books.
circumference\The distance around a circle is called the circumference, and although circumference is often used when talking about round things, it can mean a boundary of any shape that completely surrounds something.
circumstance\A circumstance is the condition in which something happens. Say you were at a business luncheon and you were accidentally fed psychedelic mushrooms in your ravioli, your boss might excuse the weird things you said, given the circumstance.
cite\his application
civilian\The most common meaning for civilian is simply someone who is not in the military. It can also refer to any object that is not military in origin — e.g., "civilian clothes" or "civilian life."
civilize\To civilize is to make someone or something more tame or refined, and less wild. You might try to civilize your younger brother by teaching him some table manners.
claim\When you express your right to something, you're making a claim to it, like telling your sister, "This bowl of cereal is mine."
clam\A clam is a marine animal with two shells that eats by straining food from water, sand, or mud. You can sometimes find clams by digging in the sand close to the seashore.
clamor\To clamor is to make a demand — LOUDLY. It's usually a group that clamors — like Americans might clamor for comprehensive health care coverage.
clarity\Clarity means clearness. Clean water running down a mountain has clarity. So does a lovely singing voice: it's clear and pure.
classic\The noun classic means something that's very high quality, particularly if it has lasting value. The pristine Model T Ford that you keep in your garage is a classic, but the beat up old Honda you drive everyday is not.
classify\Humans seem to have the need to classify things, arranging them into different classes by such unifying traits as size, color, or shape. It’s fine to do this to inanimate objects, but doing it to people can be very wrong.
clay\his application
clean\The meaning of clean usually refers to removing something unwanted: you clean your hands by washing them, then you can clean some grapes.
cleaner\someone whose occupation is cleaning
clemency\Say you're playing a role-playing game and you end up in one of the other player's dungeons.  You could try begging her for clemency — compassion shown by people in power towards people who rebel or break the law.
client\If you pay for something, you are a client. If you pay to get your dog groomed, you are a client of the dog groomer (and so is your pooch).
cliff\A cliff is a steep and often sheer rock face. If you stand on the edge of a cliff and peer over, you'll be able to see the waves crashing on the rocks below. But if you don't watch your step, you could fall right off that cliff.
cling\To cling is to tightly grasp something or to stick closely to something, like how wet clothes cling to the wearer.
clinical\Something that's clinical is based on or connected to the study of patients. Clinical medications have actually been used by real people, not just studied theoretically.
clipper\Use the noun clipper when you're talking about an old-fashioned ship with many masts and sails.
closet\a small room (or recess) or cabinet used for storage space
clothing\Clothing is what your wear, like sweaters, shirts, pants, dresses, and so on. Your favorite piece of clothing might be your purple polka dotted tights.
cloture\When a Senate debate is brought to a swift end, it's done with a procedure called cloture. Cloture is most often used to end a filibuster.
clue\A clue is a piece of evidence that helps solve a problem, or it's a slight hint. When you’re in the dark about the surprise party your friends are planning, they'll say, “She doesn’t have a clue!”
clump\A clump is a "bunch" or a "cluster." If you're a gardener, the last thing you want to see is a clump of weeds growing in the middle of your newly groomed lawn.
clumsy\Someone clumsy is a klutz. They're awkward, ungraceful, and walk like they have two left feet. Something hard to handle — like a huge box — is also clumsy.
cluster\his application
clutch\To clutch is to grasp or hold on to tightly. Some people clutch the safety bar on the roller coaster for dear life; others throw their hands in the air.
coarse\Coarse can mean rough to the touch or vulgar. It's good to have coarse sand paper, but not good to have coarse manners.
coax\When you coax someone, you try to convince him gently, with pleasant words and maybe a little flattery. You’ll have to be patient, as you can’t rush someone you’re trying to coax.
code\A code can be a set of principles. Our laws make up our legal code, and many people govern themselves through a personal "code of honor." Code can also mean a system for sending secret messages, or programming language for computers.
coexist\To coexist is to live in the same place or at the same time. If you, your roommate, and a cat all live in an apartment together, you can say the three of you coexist.
cogitation\Cogitation is meditation or deep thinking. Big decisions should be made after cogitation. If people bug you while you’re thinking, impress them by telling them to wait until you’re done with your cogitation. When you’re done, you might shout, “Eureka!”
cognition\his application
coherent\Something coherent is logical and clear. "I told you if you didn't do your homework you couldn't watch TV. You didn't do your homework so you can't watch TV." This is a coherent argument (and annoying as well).
cohesion\Cohesion means sticking together. If your group of friends heads to the lunchroom as a team and sits all together, you're demonstrating strong cohesion.
coil\A coil is a spiral shape or a series of circles, each one inside another. You might see a coil of rope on a dock or coils of hair in a fancy hairdo.
coincide\When things happen at the same time, they are said to coincide. Often, this is because they're intentionally coordinated — "the bake sale coincided with Parent Day" — but not always.
collaborator\his application
collapse\To collapse means to fall over, cave in, or totally crumple. After finding out that the stock market has collapsed and your investments along with it, you'd probably collapse to the ground and sob uncontrollably.
collect\The verb collect describes gathering or bringing something together. Charity organizations often collect warm coats for people in need.
collectively\advin conjunction with; combined
collide\It could be protons bouncing around in a particle accelerator, two cars failing to stop at an intersection, or the priorities of two people with very different goals. When things crash together, they collide.
colonize\To colonize is to settle in, and take control of, land outside your own borders. Usually, a large, powerful country colonizes a territory or area that's much less powerful.
colony\A colony is a group of people who settle in a new place but keep ties to their homeland. The people who founded the United States first came to America to live as part of a British colony.
colossus\The original colossus was an enormous statue that was supposed to have guarded the ancient Greek island and city of Rhodes. Now, though, we use the noun colossus for someone of huge importance, reputation, or influence.
column\Someone who writes a column for a newspaper provides an article that expresses his or her viewpoint on a regular basis, such as a column about local politics which appears in the Sunday edition.
combat\Combat is fighting between two groups of armed forces.  When you engage in combat, typically this means you engage in fighting that involves weapons.
combination\A combination is a grouping together of separate things. Your desire to live to a big city might come from a combination of your dreams of being on stage, and your obsession with underground trains.
combine\his application
combustible\Combustible means "able to catch fire," like matches or the extremely dry forest floors that people sometimes forget are combustible — until they go up in flames.
comedy\A comedy is funny business — it can be an amusing play or movie with a happy ending, or something that happened that made you laugh.
comet\A comet is a small, icy object that orbits the sun and has a long "tail" of gas. Some comets can be seen from Earth every few years, while others pass by once in a person's lifetime.
comic\adjof or relating to or characteristic of comedy
command\A command  is an order that you have to follow, as long as the person who gives it has authority over you. You don't have to comply with your friend's command that you give him all your money.
commandos\an amphibious military unit trained for raids into enemy territory
commemorate\To commemorate something means to remember something and by doing so to honor it, as in “We would like to commemorate his many years of past service by presenting him with this lovely gold watch.”
commencement\A commencement is the act of starting out, or blazing a new trail.
comment\his application
commentary\When the language in a work of literature such as "Beowulf" is difficult to understand, it is helpful to read from an edition that includes a commentary — an explanation or expansion or criticism added to the original material.
commerce\Commerce is the exchange of goods and services. It's business. Competition between cities wanting to host the Olympics is fierce because the games increase tourism and commerce.
commission\The word commission has several very different meanings, but in its most basic meaning, commission is the act of passing a responsibility to someone else. If you receive a government commission, that means you have been assigned a task by the government.
commit\To commit is to fully dedicate yourself to something.  To commit  yourself to being the coolest kid on the beach means spending hours at the mall trying on trunks and flip-flops.
commitment\Making a commitment involves dedicating yourself to something, like a person or a cause. Before you make a commitment, think carefully. A commitment obligates you to do something.
committee\A committee is a group of people who come together to work on a project. Members of a committee commit their efforts to accomplishing a particular task, which can be anything from throwing a party to ending a war.
commodity\A commodity is any useful or valuable thing, especially something that is bought and sold. Grain, coffee, and precious metals are all commodities.
communal\Communal and community both come from Latin communis "common, of the community"—if a pool is communal, it can be used by the members of the community that owns it.
communicate\To communicate is to exchange words, feelings, or information with others. They did communicate through texting and picture sharing, but the hug he gave his mom when he came home from college communicated more love than any instant message.
community\If a number of people consider themselves one group based on location, work, religion, nationality, or even activity, they can be called a community. If you like to play online games, you are active in the gamer community.
commute\A commute is a journey you take from home to work and back again. You might enjoy your subway commute because it gives you lots of time to read.
compact\A compact is a signed written agreement that binds you to do what you've promised. It also refers to something small or closely grouped together, like the row of compact rental cars you see when you wanted a van.
companion\A companion is one who serves as a friend or partner in something. Whether it’s travel or dinner or card-playing, your companion is the one who does it with you.
comparable\Use comparable to describe two things that are alike. If you are offered two jobs with comparable salaries, you might take the one where the weather is nicer.
comparative\his application
comparison\When you make a comparison, you figure out how things are similar.
compass\Long before we had GPS (Global Positioning System) devices, people used a magnetic instrument called a compass for navigation. Some people still use a compass to navigate — usually when their GPS isn’t working.
compatible\A word that comes up a lot in discussions of both food and people pairings, compatible speaks to a person or thing’s ability to exist agreeably with something or someone else.
compel\Compel means to force or drive someone to do something. Even if you don't like toast, when you visit the toast-eating natives of Shrintakook Island, you'll be compelled to eat it, or they will not trust you.
compensate\Compensate is about correcting for an imbalance. If you step in an unmarked pothole, the city may compensate you by paying your doctor bills treating a broken ankle.
compete\his application
competence\his application
compile\When you compile something, like a recipe-book or a mix-tape, you put it together using things that already exist (recipes, songs).
complaisance\Complaisance is a quality of being eager to please or happy to follow instructions. Your new puppy's complaisance is going to make her easy to train.
complement\A complement is something that makes up a satisfying whole with something else. Those shiny red shoes you just bought complement your shiny red purse.
complementary\his application
completion\When something comes to completion, it's finished. In football, a pass that's been caught is called a completion.
complex\People who are really good at math can handle complex math problems. The rest of us are all set with simple stuff like the times tables. Use complex to refer to something that is not simple.
complicated\When things get complicated, they are no longer simple and straightforward.  If you are asked a question that would require a long, detailed answer, you might just say, "It's complicated."
compliment\A compliment is an expression of respect or admiration, like, "You're such a good writer," or "You know so many words!" Keep them coming.
comply\Comply is to act according to someone's wishes or rules. Although you might like to stay out with your friends, you'll have to comply with your parents' rules and be home by midnight.
component\his application
compose\To compose is to put something together, like a song, poem, or even yourself. You might want to compose yourself before returning to the party after a good cry.
composer\A composer is an artist who writes music to be played or performed by musicians. A classical composer might work by writing out musical notation and trying things out on the piano.
composition\Composition is another word for writing — the act of writing or the piece of writing that results. It also refers to what something is made of.
compound\If you compound a problem you add something to it to make it worse, like say, putting water on a grease fire. Compound means to combine; a compound is a combination or mixture of two or more things.
comprehend\To comprehend something is to understand it, like when you have to read a difficult passage more than once in order to comprehend it.
compress\The noun compress refers to a pad that's held to your body to reduce pain or symptoms of illness. A washcloth dipped in cold water and pressed onto your forehead to help you cool down is a type of compress.
comprise\When something comprises other things, it is made up of them or formed from them. The periodic table comprises 118 elements, because the whole comprises the parts.
compromise\A compromise is a way of settling differences by everybody making concessions. If you want to stay out until 10 and your friend wants to stay out until midnight, 11 is a good compromise.
compulsory\When something is compulsory, it is required or must be done. In most states, it's compulsory for kids to attend school (or an equivalent homeschool) from age six to seventeen.
conceal\When you conceal something, you are keeping it from being discovered: “To avoid another argument with his cousins, Jonathan worked hard to conceal his disappointment at the outcome of the race.”
concede\If you concede something, you admit that it is true, proper, or certain — usually in an unwilling way and often in the context of a competition, as in "At midnight, the candidate finally conceded defeat."
conceive\To conceive is to come up with an idea. If you conceive a plan for your little brother's birthday, you dream up the perfect party, complete with a magician, rented ponies, and a cake shaped like a rocket.
concentration\If you have great powers of concentration, that means you're able to focus all your attention on the matter at hand. Concentration can also refer to something that's clustered together or to the density or strength of a solution.
concept\his application
concert\A concert is a performance by musicians or singers for an audience. If you're in the glee club, you know about singing in concerts, and maybe you've seen your favorite bands in concert, too.
concise\If something is concise, it's short and gets right to the point. A concise edition of your diary might be 50 pages of the most important entries.
conclude\The verb conclude means two related things: coming to a decision, and bringing to a close.
conclusive\If you've got a theory that you're trying to prove, and you uncover a conclusive piece of evidence, then the case is closed. Conclusive means you've got your answer, you've proved your theory, and there can't be any doubt about it.
concrete\Concrete is that pourable mix of cement, water, sand, and gravel that hardens into a super-strong building material. Sidewalks, foundations, and highways are all made of concrete.
condensation\If your cold glass of lemonade seems to be sweating in the heat, it's just the condensation, the little drops of water that form in the humid air. Condensation happens when a gas turns into a liquid.
condense\When you condense something, you cut it down and trim it. You may love every word of your 1000-page novel, but you'll have to condense the plot into a 2-page summary for your editor.
conduct\(behavioral attributes) the way a person behaves toward other people
conductivity\A material's conductivity is the extent that it allows an electric current to flow through it. Metal generally has high conductivity.
conductor\A train conductor is the person who takes tickets, shouts "All aboard!" and might control the engine, while a musical conductor is the one who leads an orchestra. Same job title — not the same person.
confederacy\A confederacy is a political union. The most famous American confederacy consisted of the southern states who fought the northern states in the American Civil War.
confer\If you gab, chat, and talk it up with someone, you have conversation, but if you're looking for input from each other as you talk, you confer, or consult, together. They had a family meeting to confer about a schedule for sharing the new laptop.
conference\A conference is a formal get-together where people talk (or "confer") about a chosen topic, like when your office holds a conference to talk about the problem of snoring during meetings.
confession\his application
confidence\his application
configuration\When you position items into any spatial arrangement, you are creating a configuration, or specific shape. For example, scientists refer to the specific, bonded arrangement of atoms to make a molecule as a configuration.
confine\his application
confirm\When you need to make sure before you leave that you have a reservation, you often call ahead to confirm, that is, to make sure that your tickets or space are set aside for you.
conflict\A conflict is a struggle or an opposition. If you and your best friend both fall in love with the same person, you will have to find some way to resolve the conflict.
conform\To conform means to adapt to fit in with new conditions. So if you travel to Morocco, you should conform to the local custom and adjust your usual wardrobe to one that is more modest.
conformity\If all your friends wear jeans to school and you wear checkered slacks, you could say you reject conformity — doing the same thing as everyone else.
confront\Confront means either to face a situation that makes you uncomfortable, or to say something to someone about something they've done that bothers you. Rather than letting things go, when people are rude to you you should confront them.
congenial\A congenial person is  easy to get along with. If you're trying to decide which of your friends to take on a road trip, choose the most congenial one.
congestion\When a driver complains about congestion, she's talking about the cars that are backed up on the highway. When your sneezing friend complains about congestion, he's talking about his stuffed-up nose.
congress\A congress is a formal meeting where people come together to discuss issues or questions. It often refers to the legislative branch of a nation's government, such as the US Congress, but it can also refer to any important meeting or official organization.
conjure\If your mom can magically conjure up the most delicious meals from the most random ingredients in the kitchen, she might just be the best cook in the neighborhood.
conscious\adjknowing and perceiving; having awareness of surroundings and sensations and thoughts
consciously\his application
consent\Before you have surgery, you'd better give your consent, because the surgeon can't get his scalpel anywhere near your skin without first getting this permission from you.
consequence\Things in a sequence come one after another, as in a number sequence of 1, 2, 3, 4. A consequence comes after, or as a result of something you do, for example, "He was given a traffic ticket as a consequence of running the red light."
consequently\Consequently is a word that has to do with cause and effect. If you failed math, you'll consequently have to take it again.
conservation\his application
conserve\his application
considerable\Use the adjective considerable to describe something that is large in amount. Things you probably spend a considerable amount of time on: homework and laundry. Things you'd rather spend time on: anything that isn't homework and laundry!
considerate\Being considerate is being polite and caring. People like it when you're considerate of their feelings.
consistent\If you get the same Donkey Kong score every time you play, you're consistent. It's consistent with video-game addiction, however, that you will continue to play in the hopes of beating that score.
consistently\The adverb consistently describes something that's done the same way for a long time. If your mom consistently forgets to add sugar when she's baking cookies, it means you can count on inedible cookies.
consonant\A consonant is a speech sound that is not a vowel. It also refers to letters of the alphabet that represent those sounds: Z, B, T, G, and H are all consonants.
consort\If you keep company with someone, you are consorting with them. "The students tended to consort only with other students from similar backgrounds. The staff wanted to break them out of their comfort zone, so they organized games to force them to mingle and meet new people."
constant\Think of something or someone that does not change as constant.  A classmate's constant drumming on the table with his fingers could be a constant source of annoyance.
constantly\When something happens constantly, it never stops or changes. If you sister constantly complains that she's hungry, she is always insisting that she's starving.
constellation\When you spot the Big Dipper in the night sky, you're looking at part of the constellation called "Ursa Major." A constellation is a group of stars that forms a pattern and has been given a name based on its shape.
constituent\his application
constitute\To constitute is to make up a whole from smaller parts, or "constituents." "What constitutes a family?" means "What makes up a family?"
constitution\A constitution is a statement of the basic principles and laws of a nation, state, or group, such as the U.S. Constitution. Another very common meaning of constitution is the physical makeup of a person.
constrain\To constrain is to hold back, restrain, or confine. If you've ever had to constrain a toddler in the middle of a temper tantrum, you know you have to watch out for flailing limbs.
constricted\If something is constricted, it's squeezed or inhibited in some way. If your neck is constricted by turtleneck sweaters, you might feel more comfortable in a sweatshirt.
construct\To construct things is to build them. You might construct a sand castle the next time you're at the beach, or you might construct a theory about why your brother always manages to get away with breaking the rules.
consult\To consult is to give or get help or advice. When you don't know the meaning of a word, you consult a dictionary. That's why you're here, right?
consume\"The Freshman 15" describes freshman-year college students who gain about fifteen pounds because they consume way too much lousy dorm food all day long.
consumerism\The noun consumerism refers to the theory that spending money and consuming goods is good for the economy. Opponents of consumerism suggest simple living is a more sustainable lifestyle and better for the environment.
consumption\Consumption means using, buying or eating something. If we don't reduce our energy consumption, we will run out of fuel. Conspicuous consumption is buying something to show off.
contagious\You should probably postpone dinner if your date's cold is contagious — that means it's easily spread and likely to get you sick.
contain\The verb contain has many shades of meaning but it often describes something that's held back or held in by something. Kids on the last day of school may find it hard to contain their glee when summer officially starts.
contaminate\The verb contaminate means the same as pollute. Whether it’s food, air, or water, when you contaminate something, you make it impure or hazardous.
contemporary\Things that are contemporary are either happening at the same time or happening now. Contemporary art is recent art.
content\If you feel content, you're satisfied and happy. The content of a book, movie, or song is what it's about: the topic.
contest\his application
context\Context means the setting of a word or event. If your friend is furious at you for calling her your worst enemy, remind her that the context of those remarks was Opposite Day.
continent\A continent is one of the seven largest landmasses found on Earth. Asia, Australia, and Africa are three continents. Can you name the other four?
continuation\the act of continuing an activity without interruption
continuity\Continuity has to do with how things happen over time: if there aren't any bumps or breaks and everything goes on continuously, then there's continuity.
continuum\A continuum is something that keeps on going, changing slowly over time, like the continuum of the four seasons.
contour\Contour is the outline or shape of something. A shoe that fits well along the contours or shape of your foot is a good fit.
contract\When you and someone else have agreed on something and that agreement is both binding and enforceable by law, you have a contract. When you rent an apartment, you and your future landlord sign a rental contract.
contractors\A contractor is someone who is hired to build something. As a contractor at a building site, it is highly recommended you keep your hard hat on at all times.
contrast\The verb contrast means to show a difference, like photos that reveal how much weight someone lost by contrasting the "before" and "after" shots.
contribute\To contribute something is to provide a part of the whole. When your company has their annual softball game and potluck picnic, you will probably be asked to contribute a dish, like your famous macaroni salad.
controversy\A controversy is a dispute or argument in which people express strong opposing views. When a popular TV show kills off a well-loved character, there's bound to be a lot of controversy.
controvert\If you controvert something, you dispute it. If you argue for a new pony, your parents will controvert your argument by pointing out you said the same thing about the dog — the one they have to walk.
convection\Convection is the circular motion that happens when warmer air or liquid — which has faster moving molecules, making it less dense — rises, while the cooler air or liquid drops down.
convenience\Even though the real reason you want the newest phone is that it's incredibly cool looking, you might pretend that what interests you is its convenience, or how easy and useful it will be.
convention\A convention is a meeting, usually of a particular group. Political parties, teachers, plumbers, gardeners, toymakers and computer designers all hold conventions.
conventional\Conventional is an adjective for things that are normal, ordinary, and following the accepted way. Ho-hum.
converge\Use the verb converge to describe something that comes together at a common point: “Thousands of Elvis fans plan to converge on the small Arkansas town where unconfirmed sightings of the deceased superstar eating at a local barbeque restaurant had been widely reported.”
conversation\A conversation occurs when people talk to each other, like a conversation with your friend about school or professional basketball.
converse\Converse is a more formal way of saying "carry on a conversation." You could converse with your best friend for hours over lunch, but continue the chit-chat through the afternoon matinee and you might get shushed.
convert\Think of the word convert as meaning "change," whether it is a person who adopts a new belief, or a changing action, such as when you convert dollars into euros.
convey\When you convey something, you carry or deliver it. Little Red Riding Hood conveyed a basket of muffins to her grandmother. Your sad smile might convey more about your feelings than words ever could.
convict\A convict is a person who has been found guilty — convicted — of a crime and is serving a sentence in prison.
convince\"How again was it that you convinced me to do this?" the boy said to his friend before they jumped out of the plane on their first sky dive. Convince means to talk someone into something, or win someone over.
convoke\To convoke is to call to a meeting, especially a formal meeting. When planning military strategy, a nation's leader might convoke her trusted advisors and top generals.
convoluted\If something is convoluted, it's intricate and hard to understand. You'll need to read over your brother's convoluted investment scheme a few times before deciding whether or not to go in on it.
cooperative\As an adjective, cooperative describes working together agreeably for a common purpose or goal as in cooperative play or cooperative employee.
cophinus\his application
copper\Copper is a reddish-gold colored metal that's commonly used in electrical wires and plumbing. Your grandmother might make her famous chocolate caramel sauce in a shiny copper pot.
coral\Coral is a marine polyp with a calcareous skeleton that lives in colonies. You probably last saw coral while scuba diving at the Great Barrier Reef. That or while looking at the coral necklaces in the beach shop.
corona\A corona is a glowing circle of light around an object. You can see the Sun's corona during a total solar eclipse.
corporate\Corporate means having to do with a corporation. Playing golf can be a part of corporate culture. A corporate jet is one owned by the company and used for company business.
corral\A corral is a pen for horses, cows, or other livestock. If your sheep get out of the corral, you'll have to take the dogs out to help you round them up again.
correspond\When two things correspond, they match up or are equivalent to one another. You might come up with a code in which numbers correspond to letters of the alphabet. Correspond can also mean to send messages back and forth. You can use your code to correspond with your pen pal.
correspondence\Correspondence is a body of letters or communications. If you've ever had a pen pal or an email buddy, you’ve written plenty of correspondence.
corroborate\To corroborate is to back someone else’s story. If you swear to your teacher that you didn't throw the spitball, and your friends corroborate your story by promising that you were concentrating on math homework, she might actually believe you.
corrosion\Corrosion is the process by which something deteriorates because of oxidation, a chemical action that creates oxides that flake away from the base.
corrosive\A corrosive substance, like hydrochloric acid, will eat away most things on which it is spilled. Watch out in chemistry lab: you wouldn't want to destroy your homework, desk, or worse, your own skin by spilling something corrosive on it.
cosmic\If it has to do with the universe, it's cosmic. The planets, for instance, are cosmic bodies.
cosmos\The cosmos is the sum total of everything — pretty big. It's hard to wrap your mind around the cosmos, as it extends far beyond the Milky Way, or far-off galaxies, or even our own universe.
Cossack\a member of a Slavic people living in southern European Russia and Ukraine and adjacent parts of Asia and noted for their horsemanship and military skill; they formed an elite cavalry corps in czarist Russia
costume\A costume is a set of clothes you wear when you want to dress up like another person. You might wear a witch's costume to go trick-or-treating on Halloween, or put on a George Washington costume to reenact a scene from the American Revolution in a play.
cot\A cot is a small, portable bed. You might sleep on a cot when you go camping.
counseling\When you go for counseling, you're getting advice to help you make a decision or figure out what to do. Before getting married, you and your intended may see your minister for counseling about how to have a happy marriage.
counselor\A counselor is the person you can consult in your time of need. Your school guidance counselor may suggest you take Spanish class next school year. Bueno?
counteract\vact in opposition to
counterpart\If you leap tall buildings in a single bound for the Des Moines branch of your corporation, then your Metropolis counterpart might be Superman. That means you and Superman do similar jobs, but in different locations.
coupon\A coupon is a certificate or a voucher that lets you buy something at a discounted price. When you hand the cashier your coupon, he will subtract some amount from your total bill.
court\his application
crab\A crab is a stubby sea creature with a flat body, eight legs, and claws. You can sometimes find tiny crabs in the sand on the beach.
crack\A crack is a very narrow space, chink, or opening. If your favorite mug has a crack in it, it might leak.
craft\If someone practices a craft, it means that she knows how to make something with her hands, like wooden furniture or hand-knit socks.
cramped\adjconstricted in size
crater\A crater is a roundish dent left in the surface of something by the impact of something else. Look at the moon: it's covered in craters from thousands of impacts over millions of years.
crawl\To crawl is to move slowly across the floor on your hands and knees. Before they learn to walk, most babies crawl.
creativity\Creativity is the ability to transcend the ordinary. It's the critical thinking skill that allows you to "think outside the box" to come up with original solutions to problems.
credential\A credential is something that’s proof of a claim you make about yourself or your skills. You might earn a credential in computer networking that lets employers know that you’re qualified to do the job.
credit\his application
crest\A crest is a showy tuft of feathers on the head of a bird. It's easy to identify a male cardinal by its bright red color and the tufted crest on its head.
crew\A crew is an organized group of workers. A crew might keep a ship sailing smoothly or pave a road smoothly. Either way, crew implies cooperation among workers.
crippling\adjthat cripples or disables or incapacitates
crisscross\A crisscross is a pattern of lines that cross or intersect. Your favorite shirt might be printed with pink and purple crisscrosses.
criterion\A criterion is a standard for judging something. If you are holding a cupcake competition, your number one criterion might be the smoothness of frosting.
critic\A critic is someone who finds fault with something and expresses an unfavorable opinion. You might be a critic of your school’s new plan to start the school day at 6:30 a.m.
critical\The adjective critical has several meanings, among them, "vital," "verging on emergency," "tending to point out errors," and "careful."
critique\As a verb, critique means to review or examine something critically. As a noun, a critique is that review or examination, like an art essay or a book report.
crow\A crow is a large, intelligent, black bird with a loud call. Farmers and gardeners set up "scarecrows" to keep crows away from their seeds and crops.
crown\A crown is a fancy, round ornament worn on the heads of kings and queens. To crown someone is to declare them a monarch or a champion. A crown is also a boring old top of something, like a tooth.
crucial\The word crucial describes something that is important or essential to success, like the crucial dress rehearsals that ensure everything will run smoothly on your play's opening night.
crude\Is it gross? Unsophisticated? Totally tasteless and positively offensive? Then you can describe it as crude.
crusade\If you go on a crusade against vegetables, you are waging a long-term battle against leafy greens. A crusade is a passionate struggle against something or someone.
crush\When you crush something, you break it into tiny pieces or crumple it. If you crush the cans in your recycling bin, you'll make more room for more.
crust\The crust is a hard layer that forms on the outside of something, like a loaf of bread. Little kids often like their sandwiches with the crust cut off.
crustacean\A crustacean is a member of a class of arthropods that live in water. Some of your favorite seafood comes from crustaceans — crabs, lobsters, and shrimp.
crystal\Various solid substances that glitter because their surfaces are made up of planes that catch the light are called crystals. If you leave your ice cream in the freezer too long, you may find a coating of ice crystals on top.
cube\In math, a cube is a number multiplied by itself three times. The cube of 2 is 8 (2 x 2 x 2). It is also a three-dimensional shape where each of the six sides is a square or something shaped like a cube, such as an ice cube or meat cut into cubes).
cue\A cue is the long stick used for playing pool. A cue is also a reminder or stimulus to do something.
cultivate\To cultivate is to nurture and help grow. Farmers cultivate crops, fundraising professionals cultivate donors, and celebrities cultivate their images.
cultivated\The adjective cultivated is used to describe someone who is polite and civilized. The cultivated people at the party would be very offended by crude behavior.
culture\A culture is a specific group of people during a particular time — like the hippie culture of the 1960's. Culture can also imply exposure to the arts. Visit a museum if you are in need of a dose of culture.
cumbersome\You have to wrestle a bit with the longish word cumbersome; it's cumbersome, or kind of long and clumsy, to tumble out in a sentence. It's hard to use it gracefully.
cuneiform\Cuneiform is a type of writing that was used in ancient Mesopotamia and Persia. In a museum, you might see artifacts such as stone tablets with cuneiform carved into them.
curiosity\Curiosity is the urge you feel to know more about something. If you find a diary in a coffee shop, curiosity will make you want to look inside — but respect for the writer's privacy may convince you not to.
current\If it's in the past, it's not current. If it's out of date, out of style, or out of time, it's not current. If it's up-to-the-minute, right now, and in the present, it is current.
curriculum\A curriculum is a set of courses designed to give expertise, like the shoemaking curriculum at Shoe U: Advanced Cutting, Hammering, and Stitching; History of the Heel; and A Cultural History of Walking.
curve\A curve is an arched or bent shape, like the curve of a smiling mouth or the curve of a road that twists and turns as you drive along the coast.
cushion\Fabric filled with foam, feathers, or other padding material makes a cushion, which can be used to make something like a chair or sofa more comfortable.
custom\If something has been done a certain way for a long time and has become generally accepted, it's a custom.  Asking strangers for candy on one night a year would seem strange if it weren't an established custom.
cylinder\A cylinder is a solid shape bounded by a cylindrical shape and two parallel circular bases. Confused yet? Just picture a soda can or one of those mailing tubes with a round bottom and a lid.
daily\Something that's described as daily happens every day. We hope your daily habits include brushing your teeth and learning new vocabulary words on Vocabulary.com.
dairy\A dairy is a farm that specializes in milk and products made from milk. Cheese, yogurt, cream, and ice cream are all things that might be produced at a dairy.
dam\A barrier built to block the flow of water is called a dam. If you walk along a stream, you can see where beavers have built a dam out of mud and logs.
damp\Something that's damp is slightly wet or soggy. If your shoes are damp when you enter your friend's white-carpeted house, you should probably take them off.
dangerous\Use the word dangerous to describe anything that can potentially cause serious harm, like a snarling pit bull or an icy, treacherous road.
Darwinism\a theory of organic evolution claiming that new species arise and are perpetuated by natural selection
database\A database is an organized body of information. Libraries have lots of databases to help you find books, articles, or information.
dated\Something that's dated is very obviously old-fashioned or out of style. Your grandmother's expectation that you send her a written thank-you note whenever she gives you a gift might seem a little dated to you.
dawn\The noun dawn refers to the first light of day, or the first time period, like the dawn of a new era, which occurs when a new president takes office.
dazzling\Things that are dazzling seem stunning and extraordinary — they impress you enormously. A dazzling circus act amazes you with its daring and skill.
de\his application
dead\Someone who's dead is not alive anymore. If you accidentally hit a squirrel with your car, you might stop and check to see if it's alive or dead.
deaden\vmake less lively, intense, or vigorous; impair in vigor, force, activity, or sensation
deadline\A deadline is a date or time when something must be finished. At work and school, most projects have deadlines. If you don’t get your paper in by the deadline, you won’t get a good grade.
deadly\Something that's deadly can kill you. Because a gun can end someone's life, it's a deadly weapon.
deal\"Let's make a deal," a friend might say to you. That means he wants to make an agreement on something. If you pay for the gas, for example, he'll pay for the food. What a deal!
dealer\Anyone whose job (or hobby) involves buying and reselling something is a dealer. If you buy candy in bulk and sell it to your friends at a profit, you can call yourself a candy dealer.
debate\Another word for formally discuss is debate. Cheese lovers often debate the merits of gorgonzola, triple creme brie, and gouda. Of course, they need to accompany their arguments with a taste test!
debris\Debris is trash scattered around after a disaster, like shattered glass on the road after a car accident.
debut\A debut is a first appearance, a launch, or public introduction. So before you make your big debut at the office, check and make sure you don't have spinach in your teeth.
decade\She was so nervous to see her high school sweetheart at their reunion: it had been a decade (ten years) since she'd seen him at graduation, and she still got butterflies thinking about him.
decay\his application
deceive\To deceive means to trick or lie. A crafty kid might deceive his mother into thinking he has a fever by holding the thermometer to a light bulb to increase the temperature.
December\the last (12th) month of the year
decent\The adjective decent means sufficient or acceptable. The local diner you like to frequent may not serve a four-star breakfast, but it probably has decent food.
deceptive\his application
deciduous\Hemlock, blue spruce, and white pine are all evergreens. These trees have leaves throughout the year. Oak, maple, and elm are examples of deciduous trees. They lose their foliage in the fall and grow new leaves in the spring.
decipher\his application
decisive\If you make decisions quickly, you are someone who is decisive. A decisive event can settle something, like a war.
declaration\An emphatic statement — either written or spoken — is called a declaration. The Continental Congress announced their intention to form a new nation when they wrote the Declaration of Independence.
declare\If you declare victory, you are ending a war by saying you have won. Hopefully, the other side agrees, or your troops might declare you a fool. To declare is to state clearly and officially.
decline\When something declines, it goes downhill. If you stop working out, your health may decline. If you want it to improve, you should start climbing inclines instead of coasting down declines.
decode\When you translate a message from symbols or code into language, you decode it. British code breakers worked during World War II to decode Germany's coded messages.
decompose\The verb decompose means to break down or decay, like tree leaves that decompose into dirt, or cell phone batteries that decompose, resulting in more frequent charging for the user.
decomposition\Decomposition is the process of decaying or rotting. If you've ever left a carved pumpkin on the porch into late November, you have seen and smelled decomposition.
decorate\Putting up paintings, stringing up lights, and getting some flowers are all ways to decorate a house. When you decorate, you make things look better or at least more interesting.
decrease\Decrease means to lower or go down. If you are driving above the speed limit, you should decrease your speed or risk getting a ticket. Students always want teachers to decrease the amount of homework.
dedicate\To dedicate is to assign, to commit or to give over. If you dedicate a song you’ve written to a friend, it means the song belongs to them. If you dedicate yourself to a project, it means you give yourself to it.
dedication\Dedication means "committing yourself to something," like your dedication to marathon training that had you running every single morning for four months.
defect\A flaw in something is a defect. At certain stores you can buy clothes with slight defects. You have to be careful because the defect can be minor, like a missing button, or major, like sleeves of uneven lengths.
defectors\a person who abandons their duty (as on a military post)
defense\Defense has to do with protecting something or fighting against an opponent, whether it's national defense, a football team's defense, or a defense lawyer.
defiance\Stand up when the powers that be order you to sit down, and you've given a fine example of defiance. It happens when someone or a group of someones openly flouts or challenges authority.
deficiency\A deficiency is an insufficient amount of something. If you feel sluggish and tired all day, you might have an iron deficiency, meaning you aren't eating enough iron-rich foods.
deficient\Deficient means not enough or not adequate. Maybe you were deficient in caffeine that day. Maybe you were lacking in study time. But no doubt about it: you came up with a deficient number of correct answers on the physics test.
define\If you can't define a word, turn to the dictionary. That's always the best way to learn the definition. Likewise, anything you can describe completely is something you can define.
definite\Definite is an adjective describing something that is known for certain. For example, there is no more definite way to get into trouble with a police officer than speeding in front of the police station with a broken taillight.
definitive\A definitive answer is a final one. A definitive decision by a court of law is one that will not be changed. A definitive translation is one everyone turns to as correct. Definitive means authoritative, conclusive, final.
deform\To deform is to force something to have a new shape by pushing or twisting it. While some kids love to shape animals out of clay, others prefer to deform their friends' elephants and puppies.
degree\A unit of measurement, degree describes the level, intensity or seriousness of something. So that hot coffee may not have caused 3rd degree burns, but it still took a good degree of self-control not to scream when you sipped it.
deify\When you deify someone, you're paying the highest compliment: you're treating them like a god.
deity\A deity is a supernatural being, like a god or goddess, that is worshipped by people who believe it controls or exerts force over some aspect of the world.
delectation\For your delectation, here is a definition. Delectation is a formal word to describe a sense of enjoyment. It makes everything sound fancy. You experience delectation when you feel a sense of delight or joy.
delegate\Delegate lends an official air to passing off your work. If you don't like cleaning the bathroom, you can try to delegate that task to your little brother.
deleterious\If something is deleterious, it does harm or makes things worse. Smoking has obvious deleterious effects on your health, not to mention your social life.
deliberate\To deliberate means to carefully think or talk something through — it also means slow and measured, the pace of this kind of careful decision making. If you chose deliberately, you make a very conscious, well-thought-through choice.
deliberately\Deliberately means on purpose. For example, you may have noticed how the schoolyard bully deliberately chose to pick on the smallest kids at recess.
delicate\Delicate things, like a flower, a necklace, or someone’s feelings are fragile, easily broken, and often quite beautiful.
delicious\Delicious is an adjective describing a tasty item. If you’re a chocolate fanatic, you will probably find triple chocolate fudge cake to be absolutely delicious.
delight\When you like someone, you might say, "She is an absolute delight." You mean you think she's great: a delight is a source of joy, and to delight is to cause pleasure. Babies are particularly good at expressing delight in new things.
deliver\Whether you deliver a package, a baby, or a promise, you're bringing or carrying out something that was expected.
delta\Named for the fourth letter of the Greek alphabet (shaped like a triangle), a delta is a triangular area where a major river divides into several smaller parts that usually flow into a larger body of water.
demanding\Something that's demanding calls for more work or skill than the typical task. Babysitting might seem like an easy job, but depending on the kids it can actually be incredibly demanding.
democrat\A democrat is a person who believes in the rule of the people. If you think students should have a say in what courses they take in school, then it's very likely that you're a democrat.
democratic\Things that are democratic are ruled by the people, for the people. A basic democratic process involves letting everyone vote on what they think is best for the whole group.
demolish\his application
demonstrable\If you can demonstrate to me how something works, then it must be demonstrable. You might think that word should be "demonstratable," but you'd be wrong — that word doesn't exist.
demonstrate\When you demonstrate something, you show what it is or how it works. To demonstrate how your new juicer works, you should have lots of kale, carrots, and beets on hand — and some brave friends to try your concoction.
demonstration\A demonstration is a show, or display. If you are against war, you might go to an anti-war demonstration in front of the White House. You might need to see a demonstration of napkin folding before you take a job as a waitress.
demystify\To demystify something is to make it much easier to understand or see. Your favorite math teacher might be the one who manages to demystify calculus for you.
denote\To denote is to draw attention to something or to show what it means. All of the googly-eyed looks that a girl gives to a boy might do more to denote her feelings for him than leaving a note in his locker.
dense\When woods are dense, the trees grow close together. When fog is dense, you can't see through it. And if someone calls you dense, they think nothing can get into your thick skull.
dentist\A dentist is a doctor who specializes in teeth, gums, and the mouth. If you get a bad toothache, you should probably go to the dentist to make sure you don't have a cavity.
deny\To deny means refuse to accept, recognize, or believe. You can deny your sweet tooth all you want, but the stash of candy in your desk tells a different story.
depart\To depart is to go away or to choose a different direction. If you are catching a plane, you are soon to depart. And, if you are wearing a kilt instead of jeans, you depart from your usual look.
depend\To depend is to have confidence in something or someone. You can depend on your most loyal friend to show up for your modern dance performance in the park (although you probably can't depend on her liking it).
depict\When you depict something, you draw a picture of it, describe it, or show what it looks like. So grab a crayon, a paint brush, or even an Etch-A-Sketch and start depicting.
deplete\To deplete is to use up or consume a limited resource. Visiting relatives might deplete your refrigerator of food, or a pestering friend might deplete your patience.
deposit\You are making a deposit when you put money into your bank account. In that sentence, deposit is a noun, but you could express the same action using deposit as a verb. You deposit money into your bank account.
depression\The act of pressing down on something is called making a depression, and when people suffer from psychological depression that is often what it feels like — the world itself is pressing down on them.
deprive\Deprive means to keep from having. If your little brother gets loud and hyper every time he eats sweets, your parents might deprive him of sugary cereal and candy.
deracinate\To deracinate someone is to force them to move away from their native home to a new, unfamiliar place. Civil wars often deracinate large segments of a country's population.
derby\A derby is a type of hat that's round, felt, stiff, and has a narrow brim. Wear one with a little mustache and a cane, and you’ll look just like Charlie Chaplin.
derive\If you want to talk about something that comes from something else, but you want to sound sophisticated and maybe financial or scientific, use derive, like so: That scent? It's derived from a solution of roses boiled with toothpicks.
dermis\the deep vascular inner layer of the skin
descend\In its simplest sense, descend means to go or move downward, but there are a couple of subtle variations on this theme. Yes, a bird can descend from the sky, but also, humans are descended from prehistoric ancestors.
descent\If you’re on your way down, you’re making a descent, whether that’s as a passenger in an airplane that's landing, or if you’re tumbling down a staircase you just slipped on.
describe\To describe is to report details about something either out loud or in writing. "Since we can't come to Paris with you, please describe it in your letter!"
descriptive\Descriptive language is vivid and specific, and helps someone imagine a scene he didn't witness. You probably hope that your friend who works at the morgue isn't too descriptive when you ask him how his day was.
deserted\If something’s deserted it’s empty and abandoned. It's fun to spend an afternoon taking pictures of a deserted house with its overgrown yard and mysterious relics, but come nightfall it might feel a little spooky.
deserve\We deserve things based on our actions. For example, many people believe murderers deserve the death penalty.
designate\To designate is to give something a specific status. If you designate your house an opera-free zone, it means that you've officially declared that no opera is allowed to be played there.
desire\If you're talking about the longings of the heart, use the word desire. When you are studying for a difficult history exam, the desire to be somewhere far away doing something fun might be very strong!
desolate\If you feel alone, left out, and devastated, you feel desolate. A deserted, empty, depressing place can be desolate too.
despair\Despair is the feeling of not having any hope left. If you completely forgot to study for your final exam in math, you might feel despair when your teacher passes out the test.
desperate\Desperate means "having lost all hope." If you are desperate for food, it means you are starving, possibly about to die. If you are in a desperate situation, it means things are really, really bad.
dessert\Served as the last course of a meal, a dessert is often sweet, like cake or pie. If you have a sweet tooth, you may wish it were the only course of the meal.
destined\Someone who's destined is fated or meant to do something. If your mom says you're destined for a life on the stage, she means that it's certain you'll be an actor one day.
destruction\Destruction is damage so bad, things must be replaced, not fixed. Tornadoes often leave a trail of destruction, damaging neighborhoods and knocking down houses.
destructive\If something causes a lot of damage, you can talk about its destructive force or power. Something is destructive when it really messes things up.
detect\The verb detect means to discover or observe the existence of something. If you walk into your house and detect the odor of burnt food, you can deduce from the evidence that you will be going out to dinner tonight!
detective\Whether it's a police detective who investigates crimes or a private detective hired to find a missing person, a detective is someone whose job is to find out hard-to-get information.
deter\Deter means to discourage, or literally “to frighten away.” Halloween decorations that are too scary might deter trick-or-treaters, and the risk of being expelled deters kids from cheating in school.
deteriorate\When something gets worse due to neglect or an unfortunate health problem, stuff starts to deteriorate — or fall apart.
determine\If you determine something, you figure it out or settle a question, like when, after checking paws and hands, you determine that it's not the dog that ate your candy stash, but your kid sister.
detest\If you detest something, you dislike it intensely. The word can apply to things and also to people. You might detest your ex-boyfriend and you might also detest rainy Mondays and broccoli.
detoxify\vremove poison from
devastate\his application
device\A device is really anything that has a specific use. It might be a tool or object, or a plan that is devised to accomplish something. If it has a purpose, it is a device.
devise\his application
devoid\You're stranded in the ocean, miles from shore, clinging to a sinking boat, and you can't swim? Sorry to say, your situation is devoid of all hope.
devote\Devote means to give to. If you devote yourself to jump-roping, you might be found in your driveway every free moment of the day practicing.
devour\When you've gone all day without eating anything, you'll probably devour your dinner, especially if it's your very favorite homemade lasagna. Devour means to eat greedily and hungrily.
dexterous\If you're dexterous, you're good with your hands. To be dexterous is an essential trait for knitters and sleight-of-hand magicians.
diagnose\If you diagnose a disease, you recognize it by the signs and symptoms your patient shows. Your high temperature and the green crud you keep coughing up will allow your doctor to diagnose your bronchitis.
diagonal\A diagonal is made out of a straight line that's set at an angle instead of straight up or across. If you picture a square and draw a line connecting the opposite corners, that’s a diagonal line.
dialect\If the language you speak in your region is different in vocabulary, grammar and accent than the main form of the language, you speak a dialect. If your cousin in rural Arkansas can't understand your jokes, blame it on differences in dialect.
diameter\It's good to know where the diameter of a circular object is if you have to split a cookie between two 5-year-old kids. Think of a round chocolate chip cookie. The diameter of the cookie is a line that divides the cookie into two equal halves, through the center of the cookie.
dictate\When you dictate something, you are giving orders — acting a bit like a dictator.
diction\Diction is the way you talk, that is, the way you enunciate or pronounce your words, and the words and phrases you choose to use.
diet\Diet means the usual food and drink consumed by a person or animal. A healthy diet for your pet is not the same as your diet, so you shouldn't feed your dog all your table scraps.
differentiate\To differentiate is to identify the differences between things, to discriminate among them.  For example, if the light is dim at the party, you might find it hard to differentiate between the spicy bean dip and the chocolate sauce.
difficult\If something is difficult, it requires physical effort or brain power to complete, like climbing Mount Everest, a difficult journey.
diffuse\Diffuse means to spread out. Candlelight can diffuse a soft glow throughout a room. A diffuse idea is one that spreads from person to person, and a diffuse speech is scattered and unclear.
digest\When your stomach breaks down food, it digests it.  To digest is to process food so it can be absorbed into the body or information so the mind can absorb it.
digestive\any substance that promotes digestion
dignity\If someone has dignity, it means they are worthy of respect. If you really want the lead role in a play and you try to bribe the director to give it to you, she might say, “Have you no dignity?”
dilapidated\Falling down and in total disrepair, something that's dilapidated is going to need a lot of fixing up.
dilemma\A dilemma is a tough choice. When you're in a difficult situation and each option looks equally bad, you're in a dilemma.
dilute\When you dilute something, you make it thinner, weaker, or more watered down. If you put lots of ice cubes in your soda, the ice will melt and dilute the drink.
dim\Dim has several meanings related to a lack of light, hope, or knowledge. A room that is not well lit is dim, a slow thinker is dim, and when life looks hopeless, your prospects are dim.
dimension\A dimension is the measurement of something in physical space. You might give the painters every dimension of the rooms you want painted, including depth, height, and width.
diminish\Diminish means to make smaller or lesser. If you cover a lightbulb with a dark lamp shade, the light from the lamp will diminish.
dinosaur\If you've ever seen Jurassic Park, you know that dinosaurs were large reptilian creatures that walked the earth during the Mesozoic era that ran from 245 million to 68 million years ago and included the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous periods.
dioxide\an oxide containing two atoms of oxygen in the molecule
diploma\A diploma is a document people receive when they graduate from a school or program. It is a symbol of academic success. You often see framed diplomas displayed in a doctor's office.
diplomat\A diplomat is a person who helps people who have differing points of view find common ground. In government, a diplomat is an official who represents his or her country in other nations.
director\A director is a person who is in charge of something important. The advertising director for a large company is the head of the department that places ads in newspapers and on TV.
directory\A directory is a type of catalog, an organized list of people or businesses and how to contact them. If you need to find your lab partner's phone number, check the school directory.
dirk\A dirk is a knife that was traditionally carried by Scottish Highland soldiers. A dirk is known as a thrusting or stabbing dagger.
disadvantage\A piece of bad luck or a less favorable position is a disadvantage. If you are trying to run a fifty-yard dash in flip flops when everyone else has on running shoes, you'll be at a disadvantage.
disarm\When you disarm someone, you take their weapons away from them. An archery instructor might, for example, disarm a student if he wasn't handling his bow and arrow carefully.
disaster\An earthquake, an oil spill, an economic collapse, a party with inedible food and truly awful music: Each of these could be described as a disaster, a cataclysmic event causing extreme suffering, even total destruction.
discard\When you discard something, you get rid of it. If your closet is overflowing with clothes you haven't worn since 1992, why not discard some of them?
discern\If you can make out, pick out, or distinguish something, you can discern it. This is a word for recognizing and perceiving things.
discharge\his application
discipline\When you have discipline, you have self-control. When you discipline children, you are either teaching them to be well-behaved, or you are punishing and correcting them.
disclose\Disclose means to reveal or expose information that has previously been kept a secret — like a politician might be forced to disclose his finances or former scandals while running for office.
discount\The noun discount refers to an amount or percentage deducted from the normal selling price of something. If you wait until after the holiday, you can often buy goods at a steep discount — just make sure you need all that stuff.
discrete\Discrete means separate or divided. A discrete unit is a separate part of something larger. A room is a discrete space within a house, just as the crankshaft is a discrete part of a car engine.
discrimination\Discrimination means distinguishing between two or more people or things. Usually, discrimination means an unfair system that treats one group of people worse than another.
disease\A disease is a health condition that has a specific set of symptoms and traits — such as malaria or heart disease.
disguise\A disguise is something you put on so no one recognizes you. It also can be used as a verb. You can disguise yourself with a wig and mustache; that's a great disguise.
disgust\his application
disinfect\To disinfect something is to clean it so thoroughly that you kill any bacteria that might have been living on it. It's particularly important to disinfect cuts and scratches.
disintegrate\Soak your tooth in a cup of soda for long enough and it will disintegrate, or break apart from decay.
disinterested\If you can't decide whether to purchase the shirt with orange polka dots or the purple paisley-patterned one, you might seek input from a disinterested, or unbiased, party (who will probably tell you not to buy either one).
dismal\Dismal is a dreary, depressing sort of bad. "With the cold rain and their team behind by six field goals, the mood in the stands was so dismal even the cheerleaders had lost their 'Rah.'"
dismay\If you discover late Sunday night that the dog really did eat your homework, you might cry out in dismay. Dismay describes an emotional state of alarm, fear, or serious disappointment.
disorder\Disorder is a lack of order — in other words, chaos, clutter, and general disarray.
displace\When you displace something, you move it to a new position — either in a concrete sense, like moving a chair, or in an abstract sense, like firing someone from a job.
display\When you display something, you show everyone. If you run up to someone in the street, throw your arms around her, and plant a big kiss on her face, you're displaying your affection for all the world to see.
dispose\If you dispose of something, you get rid of it. Don't want that sweatshirt with the clown's face on it? Give it away, throw it out, even sell it — these are all ways to dispose of that awful shirt.
disposition\Someone's disposition is their mood or general attitude about life. If your friend woke up on the wrong side of the bed, tell her that she might need a disposition makeover.
dispute\If kids can't settle their own argument, they may need someone to mediate their dispute, or conflict. You can often tell this is the case if you hear the loud cry, "Mom!"
disquisition\Disquisition is a long and elaborate word to describe a long and elaborate analysis of a given topic. If you launch into a disquisition about toe jam at a party, you'll soon be talking to a wall.
disrupt\To disrupt is to interrupt or throw something into disorder. If you don't turn your phone off before a play, it might ring and disrupt the actors and the audience.
disseminate\Disseminate means to spread information, knowledge, opinions widely. Semin- derives from the Latin word for seed; the idea with disseminate is that information travels like seeds sown by a farmer.
dissolve\To dissolve something is to break it up or weaken it, making it no longer recognizable. You could dissolve your book club or you could even dissolve a pill by dropping it into a glass of water.
dissonance\Disagreeable sounds can be called dissonance. You know it's dissonance if you have the strong desire to cover your ears with your hands.
dissuade\When you dissuade someone, you convince that person not to do something: “When Caroline saw Peter's broken leg, she tried to dissuade him from going on the ski trip.”
distain\his application
distance\Distance is an amount of space between things. From a distance, it's hard to tell if someone's wearing a vampire costume or just a chic black outfit.
distinct\When something is distinct, it is easily identifiable or set apart from others of its kind.  An eighth-grader who is six feet tall has a distinct advantage over the other kids on the basketball court.
distinguish\To distinguish means to tell apart. If you win the lottery, you’re going to need to learn to distinguish between people who really like you and people who like your money.
distort\Distort means to twist out of shape. When you look at a tree through a twisting kaleidoscope, you distort its image, making its branches and leaves look wavy and misshapen.
distract\Distract is what you do when you draw someone’s attention — Hey! Look! Over there! Oh. Never mind. What was I saying? That’s right: distract is to draw attention away from what someone is doing.
distress\If you are in distress, you are in trouble. You're hurting — either physically or mentally.
distribute\To distribute is to disperse widely, hand out, or spread around. While you're still snoozing, the paper boy is busy distributing the newspaper all over the neighborhood.
disturbance\A disturbance is a noisy commotion that causes a hubbub or interruption. It can also be a worried mental state.
dive\his application
diverse\A diverse group is made up of people or things that are very different from each other. If your class mixes kids from all over the world, you could call it diverse.
diversification\Diversification is the opposite of sameness. Use diversification to describe the goal achieved by a store that started with deli sandwiches and now offers gourmet coffee, muffins, soups, and salads.
diversity\When there's diversity, there's variety. Often, this word is used for diversity of race, class, or gender.
divert\To divert means to shift or turn from one thing to another. A magician might attempt to divert your attention as he shoves the rabbit into the hat.
division\Division is breaking something down into parts, splitting it up. When you have division of labor, everybody does her part.
dizzy\When you're dizzy, you have a spinning or woozy sensation — you might even feel like you'l fall over. You'll probably feel dizzy for a while when you get off the whirling tea cup ride at the fair.
doctrine\A doctrine is a set of beliefs. The word comes from the Latin doctor for “teacher,”  so think of a doctrine is the teachings of a school, religion, or political group.
documentary\A documentary is a film or video examining an event or person based on facts. The word can also refer to anything involving documents.
documentation\Your driver's license is documentation of your age, address, and that you have passed the tests required to drive a car. Documentation is certifiable proof, or a set of official documents.
doff\Use the verb doff to describe removing something. You probably always doff your cap before the playing of "The Star-Spangled Banner."
dolphin\Dolphins are smart, sociable aquatic mammals that live in every ocean on the planet. Scientists aren't sure why they do it, but dolphins are known for leaping above the surface of the water as they swim.
domain\If you have a place that's all your own, somewhere real or in cyberspace that has your name all over it — literally or figuratively — it's your domain. And if you have something you really excel at, that is your domain too. You own it.
domestic\Domestic generally means relating to someone's family, home, or home country. Domestic work is work done in the home — a domestic is someone who works in a home, such as a nanny or a maid.
domesticate\To domesticate something is to tame a wild animal or plant so it can live with people. Dogs and cats are called domesticated animals because they live with us peacefully.
domicile\Domicile is a fancy word for the place where you live. Whether it's a mansion on 5th Avenue or a tee-pee in the desert, if you live in it, it's your domicile.
dominate\If your basketball team is undefeated, you could say that it was able to dominate the competition. To dominate means to be in control or have the power to defeat.
donate\To donate means to give something — money, goods, or time — to some cause, such as a charity. The word has a more altruistic meaning than does simply "giving"; it suggests that you don't expect anything in return for the contribution.
door\A door is a moving structure that when closed acts as a barrier to a room, house, building, or car. You'll have to open the door to let your dog come inside.
dormant\That old dog was dormant for so long he was confused for a furry doormat, but a doormat is likely to stay dormant, or inactive, because it is lifeless: that old dog has some life in him yet.
dormitory\A dormitory is a building at a boarding school, college, or university where students live. Many students have roommates in a dormitory, and sometimes those roommates put up really cheesy posters of shirtless guys leaning on cars.
dorsal\Dorsal is a word taken from anatomy (the study of the body) and refers to things that have to do with one's back. The movie "Jaws" should have been called "Dorsal Fin," because that's almost all you ever see of the famous shark.
double\Something is double if it has two parts or if there are two versions of it. If you order a double dip ice cream cone, there will be two scoops of ice cream for you to lick.
downtown\Downtown is the area of a city that's the busiest, with the most shops, restaurants, buildings, and pedestrians. You can usually take a bus, train, or subway to get around downtown.
doze\Are you sleepy? Maybe you need to doze a little. To doze is to sleep lightly or to take a nap.
draft\Draft means to draw, both in the sense of sketching an image onto paper, but also in terms of pulling — a draft horse draws a wagon, a draft of air is drawn into your lungs when you take a breath.
drain\Most commonly found at the bottom of sinks and bathtubs across the globe, a drain is the hole through which water is carried away.
dramatic\Dramatic means having to do with a play, as in “a dramatic production.” It also means striking or exaggerated.
drastic\Something that is drastic is violent, forceful, and extreme. If you are saving for a car and you only have $50, you need to make a drastic change to your money accumulation scheme.
draught\If you're chilly, you might close a window that's letting in a draught. Draught is the British spelling of the word draft.
drift\If you get my drift, you get the basic meaning of what I'm saying. Or, if you move around without a seeming fixed destination, you are said to drift — whether you're a snowflake or just a wanderer.
drill\A drill is a power tool that's used for making narrow holes or sometimes for pushing screws into wood or other hard material. The word is also a verb to describe the action a drill performs. For example, a dentist might drill into your tooth if you have a cavity.
drizzly\adjwet with light rain
drought\When there is a drought somewhere, there's not enough rainfall. In certain areas, a drought can last for weeks, months, sometimes even years! Forget about running your lawn sprinkler during a drought; the water is needed for drinking, bathing, and toilet flushing.
dry ice\Dry ice is carbon dioxide in solid form. It's frequently used for keeping food frozen, especially when the food is being shipped. Dry ice is so cold that it can give you cryogenic burns if you touch it.
dubious\Choose the adjective dubious for something you have doubts about or you suspect is not true. That bridge you just "bought" might be of dubious value.
ductile\If you can bend or shape a substance, especially if it's made of metal, it is ductile. If they can stretch a metal into a thin wire, scientists consider it to be ductile.
ductility\Ductility is the quality of being pliable and flexible, like a piece of metal that can be bent into a thin wire.
due\Things that are due are owed — it's time to come up with them. Loans, library books, and school assignments usually have a due date.
dull\To dull something means to take away its edge, its energy, or its excitement. "Watching that movie will dull your senses, until you fall asleep."
dump\A dump is a place where trash is stored in piles and often buried underground. If you have an old bike that can't be repaired, you might take it to the dump.
dungeon\That dank, stone-walled underground prison where wretched prisoners were kept manacled in medieval days? That was a dungeon, otherwise known as the "keep," and most familiar to us today from a million video games and movies.
duplicate\Duplicate describes something that's an exact copy. If you tend to accidentally lock yourself out of your car, it's a good idea to carry a duplicate key with you just in case.
durable\Something that is built to last is durable. Your most durable pair of hiking boots will last you through your trek to the summit of Mount Everest.
Dutch\the people of the Netherlands
dwarf\An unusually short, small person is sometimes called a dwarf. There are many different genetic medical conditions that can cause a person to be classified as a little person or a dwarf.
dwelling\A dwelling is a home — where someone lives. Houses, apartments, and condos are all dwellings.
dynamics\Dynamics refers to the branch of mechanics that deals with the movement of objects and the forces that drive that movement. If you're taking a physics class, you will likely study dynamics.
dysphoria\Dysphoria is a state of mental discomfort or suffering. When you feel dysphoria — and we hope you rarely do — you feel depressed and awful.
ease\Ease means to lessen or release, often making something possible in the meantime. When you put someone at their ease, you lessen their discomfort. When you ease into a chair, you gently release yourself into it.
Easter\a Christian celebration of the Resurrection of Christ; celebrated on the Sunday following the first full moon after the vernal equinox
eccentric\his application
eclipse\his application
ecology\The noun ecology describes the environment as it connects to living things, or the branch of biology that studies that environment.
economy\The general sense of economy is careful management of resources such as money and materials, so as not to waste them, but the more familiar reference is to a system of producing, distributing, and consuming goods and services.
ecosystem\An ecosystem is all the living things, from plants and animals to microscopic organisms, that share an environment. Everything in an ecosystem has an important role. Well, almost everything.
edible\his application
edifice\Edifice means a building, but it doesn't mean just any building. To merit being called an edifice, a building must be important. A mini temple can be an edifice, or a towering sky scraper.
editor\Newspaper editors don't write the stories, but they come up with the story ideas, assign them to writers, read all of the drafts, and correct and change them to make them ready to be published.
editorial\An editorial is an article that expresses the opinion of the person who or organization that wrote it. The president of the Llama Lovers Club wrote a scathing editorial in the Llama Times newspaper to protest the rash of llama thefts in her area.
effluvial\his application
egregious\Something that is egregious stands out, but not in a good way — it means "really bad or offensive." If you make an egregious error during a championship soccer match, your coach might bench you for the rest of the game.
eject\It’s good to eject yourself from a burning spaceship (if you happen to have an escape pod and a nice small planet to land on), but if a teacher ejects you from class, well that’s not so good.
elaborate\Use the adjective elaborate when you want to describe how something is very detailed or especially complicated, like a devilish prank planned out weeks in advance.
elect\To elect is to choose. A group of citizens may elect the next president, or you may just elect to stay home during the blizzard.
elective\Something that's elective is optional — you can choose to do it, or not. An elective course in school is one you take because you want to rather than to fill a particular requirement, although you still get credit for it.
electric\Things that are electric are either powered by electricity — like a battery-operated flashlight — or produce or transmit electricity — like an electric generator.
electricity\Electricity is the energy that powers your lights and appliances. Electricity is the stuff that Benjamin Franklin harnessed from lightning using a key and a kite. Don't try that on your own.
electron\If you take chemistry, you will learn about electrons. Electrons are the smallest of the particles that make up an atom, and they carry a negative charge.
electronic\Electronic things work because of electricity that's transmitted using tiny parts. The keyboard you play in your band is electronic, and so is the calculator you use in math class.
eleemosynary\Eleemosynary is an adjective that describes things that are related to charitable giving, especially when you're talking about assistance to the poor. Monetary donations to eleemosynary institutions are usually tax deductible.
elegant\Nimble ballerinas and long-legged birds are elegant; dump trucks and walruses usually are not.
element\An element is something basic and important––in chemistry, an element is one of the essential molecules that everything else is made of. If a book's ending carries and "element of surprise," it means surprise is an important part of the story's end.
elementary\Things that are elementary are simple or not very advanced, as in elementary school or Sherlock Holmes' famous line, "Elementary, my dear Watson!"
elevate\To elevate is to lift up, either literally or figuratively. One way to elevate your mood is to exercise and elevate your heart rate. But if you exercise too hard and sprain your ankle, you might have to elevate it by propping it on a pillow.
elicit\When you elicit, you're bringing out a response of some sort. A good comedian elicits a lot of laughs.
eligible\If you get good grades, volunteer at the hospital, play varsity sports, and write for your school paper, you might be eligible for a college scholarship.
eliminate\As eliminate means "get rid of or do away with," it has become used to refer to the end of a problem or even an entire species. We need to eliminate sources of pollution in order to maintain a healthy world.
elliptical\The word elliptical is derived from the oval shape known as an ellipse. Many comets have an elliptical orbit around the Sun that brings them closer at some times and farther away at others.
elm\his application
eloquent\When you're eloquent, you have a way with words. An eloquent speaker expresses herself clearly and powerfully. Even though eloquent usually describes oral speech, it can also be used to describe powerful writing.
elucidate\If you elucidate something, you explain it very clearly. If you don't understand fractions, a visit to the pie shop may elucidate the subject for you.
elusive\Things that are elusive are hard to find, pin down, or remember. They slip right out of your grasp.
embarrass\If you embarrass someone, you make them feel self-conscious, awkward, or even stupid. Your mom might embarrass you by inviting your date to check out your childhood photos.
embellish\The word "bell" shows up in the middle of embellish, and bells are something that decorate, or embellish something, making it more attractive. If you embellish speech, though, it can get ugly if you add a lot of details that aren't true.
emblem\An emblem is a design that stands for a group or a concept. If you’re Scottish, your family may have an emblem such as a coat of arms that symbolizes your heritage.
embody\To embody a role is to fill it completely. If a high schooler seems to embody the character of Macbeth, his performance might make the audience forget they're watching a dorky 15-year-old with braces.
embrace\To embrace something is to welcome it with open arms, hold, hug, accept completely. You might embrace your sweetheart, or even changes in technology.
embryo\An embryo is an animal in the phase after fertilization but before birth or hatching. Embryos still live in the womb or egg.
embryonic\If something is described as embryonic, it's just starting to develop or come together. An "embryo" is a person or animal that is still growing in the womb or egg, and embryonic means "like an embryo."
emerald\Emerald is a green gemstone. It's also the name of this particular shade of green. On St. Patrick's Day, you'll see the color emerald everywhere — in cupcake icing and maybe even in your beer.
emerge\To emerge means to come out into view or come forth. You might hope to emerge from an epic perming session looking like a beauty queen, but chances are it will just look like you got electrocuted.
emergence\An emergence is when something comes into view — like the emergence of a seedling in a garden or the famous emergence of Punxsutawney Phil on Groundhog Day — which is supposed to show how soon spring will "emerge."
eminent\Anyone highly regarded or prominent is eminent. Eminent people are very successful at their jobs. If you’ve heard of Neil deGrasse Tyson, it’s probably because he’s an eminent astrophysicist.
emission\An emission is something that's been released or emitted into the world. Car exhaust, burps, and radio broadcasts are all examples of emissions.
emit\To emit means to give off or let out, and it usually has a lot to do with gases, smells and noises. All of which could be potentially embarrassing, depending on where they're coming from.
emotion\An emotion is a strong feeling, like the emotion you feel when you see your best friend at the movies with a group of people who cause trouble for you.
emotional\If it has anything to do with feelings like happiness or anger, then consider it emotional. A co-worker who cries at the drop of a hat is overly emotional.
emphasize\To emphasize is to make something important, or stress it, like when you were little and your parents would always emphasize the importance of looking both ways before crossing the street. They told you again and again and again. And again.
employ\To employ means to use something or hire someone to work. You can employ a saw to cut a board or employ a tutor to teach you math. You can even employ your talents in study and activities.
empyrean\Use the word empyrean when you're talking about the heavens or the sky. You might describe the empyrean curve of the night sky, scattered with stars, particularly if you wanted to sound poetic.
enactment\the passing of a law by a legislative body
encase\To encase something is to cover it or close it off, as if you were putting it in a shell, a coating, or a box. Some cheesemakers encase each wheel of cheese in wax.
enclose\To enclose something is to surround it or cover it up. An envelope encloses a letter.
encomium\An encomium is a fancy word for a formal speech or piece of writing that warmly praises someone or something.
encompass\Encompass means to contain. When you see the word, picture a campus which encompasses lecture halls, a football field, a medical center, a dining hall and some parking lots.
encounter\If you run into that cute guy (or girl) from the local deli when you’re at the grocery store and you stop to chat, you’ve just had an encounter, which is a casual meeting, often resulting by chance.
encourage\When you encourage someone, you give him or her the courage or confidence to do something, like when you encourage your little brother to play harder by yelling his name from the sidelines of the soccer field.
encroach\To encroach is to overstep your bounds, to take over space or rights that belong to another, like your brother whose mess always encroaches on your side of the room you share.
encumber\To encumber is to weigh someone or something down with a physical or psychological burden. You may find yourself encumbered by a heavy backpack or with anxieties. Either way, it's a heavy load to bear!
endangered\An animal that is endangered is close to extinction — meaning there aren't very many of that type of animal left in the world.
endearing\Endearing describes something or someone extremely lovable, like a kitten or your friend's sense of humor.
endeavor\his application
endow\To endow is to furnish, but not with furniture. If you've been endowed with something, it means you've been given a gift — most likely a gift that can't be returned or exchanged, like a sense of humor or athletic ability or trust.
endure\If something endures, it lasts: Beethoven's fame has endured for more than 200 years. But if you endure something, you suffer through it: We endured our teacher's slide shows of her vacation photographs.
energumen\his application
enforce\To enforce means to make sure the laws and rules are being followed. So those guys wearing striped outfits and whistles? They're in charge of enforcing the rules of the game.
engaging\A story, song, or person that is engaging is entertaining, fun, and interesting — you want to see or hear more.
engine\An engine is a machine that burns fuel to make something move. The engine in a car is the motor that makes it go.
engraving\Engraving is the art or technique of carving designs into a surface. You'll find engraving on stationary, wedding rings, and even on tombstones.
engulf\Engulf is a verb that means being completely surrounded, soaked, or covered. Fire, snow, smoke, flood waters, or even violence are a few things that could engulf you.
enhance\Many people use the expression "enhance your chance" to point out ways to increase your chances of winning or earning a contest or prize. When you enhance something, you heighten it or make it better.
enlightenment\Enlightenment is education or awareness that brings change, such as your enlightenment about nutrition that leads you to throw out every last bit of your family's junk food.
enormous\When something is very, very, VERY big, it can be called enormous. “Good heavens, that pimple on your cheek is absolutely enormous; it covers half your face!”
enrich\To enrich something is to make it richer, or to improve the quality of it. You play the lottery because it might enrich your bank account; you play ping-pong to enrich your quality of life.
enroll\If you like clowning around but you're not quite ready for the circus, you could enroll in clown college to perfect your skills. When you enroll, that means you formally add your name to the list — or roll — of students.
entail\To entail is to involve. A job at a movie theater might entail sweeping popcorn off the floor, probably because watching a movie entails eating popcorn in the dark. It’s a small price to pay!
enterprise\Enterprise describes a readiness to act boldly to get something started, like the enterprise it takes to start a charity with only a dream and a few dollars.
enterprising\If you are enterprising, you are creative and show initiative. Were you the kid who bought candy before school and sold it during school at a profit? If so, you were an enterprising little one.
entertain\If you want to entertain, you've got to hold people's attention, usually with something amusing. Clowns, music, silly jokes, and a good game of charades can all be used to entertain.
enthrall\When something is so fascinating that it holds all your attention, it is said to enthrall — whether it's a thrilling action-adventure film, a breathtaking work of art, or even the person you have a crush on.
enthusiasm\You might show enthusiasm if you find out that all the shoes are on sale for 70 percent off today. The word enthusiasm indicates intense excitement.
entitle\Use the verb entitle to mean "give a right to." At some schools, being a senior might entitle students to go out for lunch on Fridays.
entity\If your little sister turns her lemonade stand into a lemonade empire, she might incorporate it as a company. Under the law, it would be considered an entity, or a separate being for purposes of government control.
entry\Entry has loads of meanings, most of them concerning going inside someplace and the way you happen to get inside. It can also refer to written records (as in a diary or ledger) or a submission to a contest.
envelop\When something envelops you, it wraps around you. The Snuggie Blanket is so popular because it envelops your body, leaving only your head uncovered. Sure, it looks dorky, but it keeps you extra warm.
enzyme\An important element in human chemistry, an enzyme is a protein manufactured by a cell, and is a catalyst in various biological functions. For example, enzymes help break down larger molecules of starch, fat, and protein during digestion.
ephemeral\Something that is fleeting or short-lived is ephemeral, like a fly that lives for one day or text messages flitting from cellphone to cellphone.
epic\An epic is a long poem or other work of art celebrating heroic feats. After you sail around the world for seven years, fighting corruption and planting vegetable gardens, some poet will surely write the epic of your adventures.
epidemic\An epidemic is a disease that spreads rapidly among many people in a community at the same time. In the 1980s, the fast-spreading AIDS epidemic transformed life on our planet.
episode\Think of your favorite TV show. It runs all year long, in weekly installments. Each of those individual programs is an episode, one part of a long series.
epitomize\If you epitomize something, you’re a perfect example of that thing. If you never get nervous when playing basketball and can always make that last-second shot, your teammates might say you epitomize mental toughness.
epoch\An epoch is a period of time marked by certain characteristics: you might describe several peaceful decades in a nation's history as an epoch of peace.
equal\Things that are the same size or have the same traits are said to be equal. When it comes to people, being equal means everyone has the same rights and opportunities — and responsibilities.
equator\his application
equivalent\If two things are basically the same, you can say that they're the equivalent of each other.  Like, studying advanced physics is the equivalent of banging your head against the wall.
equivocate\When you are unwilling to make a decision and almost intentionally go back and forth between two choices, you are equivocating. When politicians equivocate, they are often afraid of upsetting, and thus alienating, voters with their decisions.
era\his application
erect\Erect means "build" or "upright." If you erect a house, you build it. If you stand erect, you hold your body as tall as possible.
erode\When soil or land erodes, it wears away or is removed. Many beaches seem to get smaller and smaller, as the endless wash of the waves begins to erode the fine sand.
errand\An errand is a short trip to fulfill some small business. When you’re running errands, you’re making a bunch of these all at once.
erupt\A rash, a volcano, applause, violence, all of these are things that are prone to erupt, meaning they suddenly become active.
essay\A composition that is usually short and has a literary theme is called an essay. You should probably start writing your essay on "To Kill a Mockingbird" sometime before the bus ride to school the day it is due.
essence\Essence is whatever most sums up the heart and soul of something, its truest most indispensable qualities. The essence of Las Vegas is poker chips and dreams; the essence of Johnny Cash is black clothing and country music.
essential\Essential means very basic or necessary. A good frying pan is one of a short list of kitchen essentials every cook must have. To prevent fires, it's essential to turn off appliances before leaving the house.
establish\To establish something means to begin it or bring it about. If you want everyone in your family to bring you chocolate every evening, you can establish a “Chocolates for Me” policy requiring it.
estate\The word estate is mostly used to mean a massive and fabulous house on a big piece of land. When you own an estate, it usually means you have a whole lot of money to go along with it.
estimate\A rough calculation or appraisal is an estimate. When you hit another baseball through the kitchen window, your parents will get an estimate of the repair costs. And you should estimate being grounded for approximately 3 weeks.
eternal\If something lasts forever or even if it just feels like it’s going to last forever, you could call it eternal, which means that it goes on and on and will never change or end.
ethics\his application
ethnic\An ethnic group encompasses a group of people with a unique culture. People from Bosnia form an ethnic group called Bosnians, and they share common cultural traditions, which often focus on hospitality and family.
evacuation\An evacuation happens when people are removed from or leave a dangerous place. An approaching hurricane sometimes results in the evacuation of islands and coastal towns.
evaluate\When you evaluate something, you're making a judgment, one that most likely results from some degree of analysis.
evaporate\his application
even\Even means level and flat. When you're planning to build one of your famously elaborate sandcastles on the beach, you probably make sure the sand is even before you start.
everyday\Something routine or ordinary is called everyday. Your everyday chores, your everyday clothes, your everyday activities — these things make up everyday life.
evict\Use the verb evict to say that a tenant is being forced to move out of his home, usually through legal action. If you don't pay your rent, eventually your landlord will evict you.
evidence\Evidence is anything that can be used to prove something — like the evidence presented in a trial, or the trail of bread crumbs that is evidence of the path Hansel took through the woods.
evident\If something is evident, it's visible. If you blush furiously and start shaking every time your crush comes near, your infatuation will be evident to everyone.
evoke\The verb evoke most commonly means to bring a feeling, memory, or picture into the mind. When you visit your old elementary school, the smells, sounds, and colors there can evoke memories from the past.
evolve\his application
exaggerate\When you exaggerate you stretch the truth. Fishermen tend to exaggerate the size of their fish. And children tend to exaggerate the seriousness of their cuts in order to get cute Band-Aids.
exalted\Use the adjective exalted to describe something or someone that is raised in rank, value, or power. The exalted queen enjoyed regular processions in her honor and gifts sent from foreign lands.
excavate\To excavate is to remove or find by digging. If you have rocky soil in your garden, you may have to excavate it to remove the rocks and replace them with additional soil.
exceed\To exceed is to go beyond expectations, or to go too far. If you exceed the speed limit, you might get a speeding ticket.
excess\his application
excessive\Excessive means beyond what is typical or normal. When something is excessive, there's way too much.
exchange\To exchange means to trade one thing for another. If you and your friend both prefer what the other has brought for lunch, you should exchange lunches.
exclude\Exclude means to leave out — like when the cool kids won't let you in on their game of four-square or the pizza guy leaves your neighborhood out from his delivery zone.
excursion\An excursion is taken more for pleasure than for practical reasons. Your business trip, when you spent most of the week waiting in airports and adjusting to different time zones, does not count as an excursion.
execute\To execute means to carry out in full or perform. If you execute all the difficult steps of the dance perfectly, you will make your instructor proud.
exemplary\Exemplary people excel at what they do and are excellent examples to others. Something exemplary is so good that it is an example for others to follow.
exempt\If your accountant tells you that you’re exempt from taxes this year, give him a big hug. He is saying that you don’t have to pay taxes.
exert\Exert basically means to put forth effort to do something. For example, when you exert yourself in a workout, you can really feel the burn in your muscles.
exhale\When you breathe, you inhale and exhale. In other words, you breathe in and out. When you breathe out, you exhale.
exhaust\The noun exhaust refers to what comes out of your car's tailpipe. It consists of the burned gases and particulate matter that are created by the engine. As a verb, the word exhaust means to use something up, such as a food supply or your energy.
exhibit\his application
exhilarating\Something exhilarating is so exciting it makes you a little giddy. "Snowboarding that black-diamond trail was exhilarating!"
exist\The verb exist means to live, to have reality. Dodos no longer exist because they were hunted to extinction.
existence\Existence is the state of being alive or being real. For example, you and your best friend disagree about the existence of Bigfoot if you think it's real and your friend doesn't.
exogamy\marriage to a person belonging to a tribe or group other than your own as required by custom or law
exorbitant\Use the adjective exorbitant when you want to describe something that is really just too much! You'll often hear people griping about exorbitant bank fees or exorbitant interest rates.
exorcise\To exorcise is to cast out a devil or evil spirit, using prayer and other religious tools. You're probably familiar with the name of the person who does this: an exorcist. Don't try to exorcise a demon yourself. Call an exorcist.
exotic\Something so unusual that it must be from some unfamiliar place is exotic. An exotic pet might be a panda, instead of a hamster. An exotic trip might be a journey to the Galapagos Islands, instead of to Orlando's Sea World.
expand\The verb expand means to make something bigger or wider. It might refer to something concrete, as when you blow into a balloon and make it expand, or something more abstract, as when you study to expand your mind.
expediency\Expediency gets you what you want.  While its tone can be neutral, expediency often suggests self-interest, possibly at the expense of doing what's right.
expedition\An expedition is an organized journey that is undertaken for a particular purpose, like a group of scientists launching an expedition to South America to seek out a new medicinal herb.
expel\Getting expelled from a school is a step beyond suspension. It means that you are asked to leave and never come back. In other words, you have been kicked out.
expertise\When you're an expert at something, you show expertise — or an exceptional knowledge of the subject. "He had expertise in accounting, having excelled in math, but he had even more expertise in dancing, his hobby since a small child."
expire\If something — like milk or a free shipping coupon — expires, it is no longer usable or valid. When you expire, you will be dead.
explicit\Anything explicit is completely clear and includes details. If you don't want your little brother to become a snake snack, you'll need to give him explicit instructions for feeding your pet boa constrictor safely.
explode\Anything and anyone can explode — that is, produce a violent, sudden and usually very loud release of energy.
exploit\An exploit is a heroic act or notable deed. The King Arthur legends are full of stories of the exploits of the Knights of the Round Table, including Sir Lancelot and King Arthur himself.
explore\Explore is a verb that means "to travel in or through." You might explore an island, a European city, or the rooms of an unfamiliar house.
explosive\An explosive  is a substance that can be made to explode by being hit or lit on fire. You might use an explosive to create a tunnel through a mountain — but you probably shouldn't use one to clear weeds from your yard.
exponent\An exponent is a person who is a big promoter of something. Are you an exponent of the four-day school and work week?
exposition\An exposition takes place when you "expose" something — like at a  fair or convention for showing off goods, art, or similar wares. An exposition can also be the section of a story that explains the basics of the tale.
exposure\If you place someone or something in an environment that causes them to experience something, you can call this exposure. Exposure to sun and rain will cause wood to turn gray. In school, you will be given exposure to the basic principles of math, science and language.
extend\his application
extension\An extension is the act of getting more time, space, or length, like an extension of a deadline that gives you one more day to turn in a paper, or extensions that make your hair look longer.
extent\The extent is the area something covers. That could be physical space or something like being prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
exterior\Something that's exterior is on the outside of some structure or object. An exterior door on a house opens to the outdoors, rather than connecting one room to another.
external\If, as a kid, you didn’t get what you wanted on your birthday, you were probably told that external, or outward, things can’t bring happiness. (It’s a noble idea, but it’s still up for debate, at least in some circles.)
extinct\Something that no longer exists and has no living representative is extinct. Dinosaurs are extinct. Polar bears may become extinct. Sadly, history teachers who force their students to memorize long lists of dates are in no danger of becoming extinct.
extol\If you have a crush on a guy who likes your best friend, it can be very depressing to listen to him extol your friend's virtues, while you just nod and smile. If you extol something, you praise it very highly.
extract\When you extract something, you remove it from a larger whole. You can extract a passage from a book, or a liquid essence from a vanilla bean—vanilla extract.
extraordinary\Something extraordinary goes above and beyond what is expected. This can be good or bad. Saving a child from a burning building is an extraordinary act of heroism, but a test score of 11 out of 100 is extraordinary too.
extravagant\Extravagant is an adjective that means expensive, excessive, and over the top. A modest chandelier in your dining room is normal. But crystal-studded walls and gold-plated goblets? That's a bit extravagant.
extreme\his application
exuberant\Are you feeling really happy and enthusiastic about something? Describe yourself with the adjective exuberant!
exude\To exude is to give off small amounts, usually of liquids or gases, through small openings, such as pores. Think of how you exude sweat after a workout.
exultant\Use the adjective exultant to describe the triumphant feeling you get when you succeed at something. The kids who win the Little League championship game will be exultant.
fabric\Fabric is what something is made from, especially clothing. Silk is a common fabric, but you can also talk about "the fabric of society."
fabricate\Do you like to construct mini airplanes from kits? Work on an assembly line? Piece together Ikea furniture? Then you certainly know how to fabricate, or to put together, things.
facade\A facade is the front of a building, or a kind of front people put up emotionally. If you're mad but acting happy, you're putting up a facade.
facial\When you describe something as facial, it has to do with the face. Your facial expression is the smile — or frown — that you happen to be wearing on your face.
facilitate\To facilitate means to make something easier. If your best friend is very shy, you could facilitate her efforts to meet new people.
facility\Facility is a noun with several different meanings. Often, as in "storage facility," it's a place designed for a specific use, but it can also mean an effortlessness or ease with something.
factious\A factious group is one that breaks away, or wants to. It’s often used in politics, where people separate into smaller like-minded groups. The Confederacy was factious — they wanted out of the Union, but we know how that turned out.
factor\A factor is a part or element that contributes to a result. If you only fly budget airlines and refuse to stay anywhere but youth hostels, then money is probably a big factor in your travel plans.
factual\If something is factual, it can be proven, like your mother's story about the bear that is factual because she took a picture of it standing next to the family car.
faculty advisor\his application
faculty\his application
fade\When things fade, they gradually become less clear or more faint. When you wake up after having a strange dream, its details quickly begin to fade unless you write them down right away.
fagus\his application
Fahrenheit\The Fahrenheit scale is used to measure temperature in the U.S. If you're planning to take a nice, warm bath, you'll want the water to be about 100 degrees Fahrenheit.
faint\Something faint has no courage or vigor. If you suddenly round the corner and see a gang of bullies staring straight at you, chances are you'll feel faint.
fair\When used as a noun, fair refers to a traveling show with games, rides, and farmers showing off their prized pigs, similar to a carnival. As an adjective, it gets a bit trickier.
fairly\When you do something fairly, you treat everyone with equal consideration. Sharing a pizza fairly between six people is easy: just give each person one slice.
fairness\Fairness is the quality of making judgments that are free from discrimination. Judges, umpires, and teachers should all strive to practice fairness.
familiarize\To familiarize yourself with something is to learn about it or become comfortable with it. Once you familiarize yourself with the unusual spices, you'll probably find Indian food delicious.
fancy\Fancy can be an adjective, noun, or a verb. As an adjective, it’s the opposite of plain. The noun names something that isn’t real. When someone likes or wants something, the verb can be used: “I fancy a cup of tea.” Doesn’t that sound fancy?
fantastic\The adjective fantastic has two meanings — extraordinarily brilliant or ludicrously far-fetched. So when your boss calls your suggestion of work-at-home-in-your-bathrobe-Fridays for the whole office fantastic, be sure you know which one he means.
fantasy\A fantasy is something you imagine, which might involve dragons, unicorns, or an imaginary best friend. If you live in a fantasy world, you're not worrying much about reality — pleasant, maybe, but not very practical.
fare\It's not fair that fare means three unrelated things. As a verb, it means to proceed or get along, as in "Fare thee well." As a noun, it can refer to the cost of travel ("Train fare is ten dollars") or to food ("Tatertots are typical cafeteria fare").
farmer\A farmer is a person who runs and works on a farm. Some farmers raise a variety of food crops, while others keep dairy cows and sell their milk.
fascinate\his application
fashion\his application
fashionable\Something that's fashionable is in style. Your cousin might insist that wearing wide-brimmed fishing hats is very fashionable right now.
fatal\The adjective fatal describes something that is capable of causing death. Certain cleaning products, for instance, are labeled, “Could be fatal if swallowed.” Here's a helpful suggestion: don't swallow them.
fatigue\Swimming and playing volleyball at the beach can make you tired and pleasantly wiped out, but long hours filling and emptying a wheelbarrow of dirt on a hot day brings fatigue, a far more draining kind of exhaustion.
faucet\Water comes out of your faucet and into your sink or bathtub. A faucet is a device that allows you to turn the flow of water on and off.
fault\A fault is an error caused by ignorance, bad judgment or inattention. If you're a passenger, it might be your fault that your friend missed the exit, if you were supposed to be watching for it, not sleeping.
fauna\his application
favorable\The word favorable describes something positive or promising, such as a two-thumbs-up movie review or the perfect conditions for golf.
favored\adjpreferred above all others and treated with partiality
feasible\If something is feasible, then you can do it without too much difficulty. When someone asks "Is it feasible?" the person is asking if you'll be able to get something done.
feat\A feat is an exemplary, even bold achievement, often an act of great courage or skill.  Getting your cat to wear a leash was quite a feat.
federal\Federal refers to the national government. The voting age is determined by the federal government while the driving age is decided on a state by state basis.
feeble\You know how you feel when you can’t open a jar of pickles? And then grandma walks in and does it in one shot without even grunting? That’s called feeling feeble, or lacking strength.
fellow\his application
fellowship\A grant given by a university or foundation to a scholar for research or study is a fellowship. If you get a fellowship to do research on insects, it might bug your colleagues who didn't get one.
female\The female animals are the ones who can have babies. They’re not males. Girls and women are female humans, but there are male and female animals of all kinds. Just ask Noah.
feminist\A feminist is someone who supports equal rights for women. If your brother objects strongly to women being paid less than men for doing the same job, he's probably a feminist.
fencer\A fencer is someone who participates in the sport of fencing, or sword fighting. Fencers are among the athletes who compete in the Olympics every four years.
fender\A fender is the part of a car that protects and frames its wheels and keeps mud from splashing it. Most modern vehicles have fenders on their front wheels.
ferment\The word ferment means a commotion or excitement. Consider that the fermentation that turns juice or grain into alcohol is the result of the agitated development of bacteria, and then you can better appreciate the word's meaning.
fertile\The word fertile means "able to reproduce," but like so many words, that's just the beginning. The fact that she gave birth to eight kids was proof that she was fertile; her fertile imagination explained their unusual names.
fertilize\vprovide with fertilizers or add nutrients to
feudal\Anything feudal relates to the medieval system of feudalism — where the nobility owned the land while everyone else worked it. It was no fun to be a lowly serf in the feudal system.
fiber\Almost all fabrics, muscle structures, and even vegetables are composed of some sort of fiber, the noun meaning a long, thread-like substance.
fiction\A fiction is a deliberately fabricated account of something. It can also be a literary work based on imagination rather than on fact, like a novel or short story.
fidelity\Fidelity is the quality of being faithful or loyal. Dogs are famous for their fidelity.
filament\The stamen of a flower — the part that produces pollen — consists of a slender stalk, called a filament and an anther. The filament supports the anther, which is where pollen develops.
file\To file is to submit an application or a record to some official authority, like a court, police station, or city hall. You might file a complaint against your neighbor after he shovels the snow from his driveway into yours.
filibuster\As a verb, filibuster means "to obstruct legislation by talking at great length." As a noun, it can refer to that oppositional speech. "The Senator prevented a vote on the bill by reading the dictionary from aardvark to zyzzyva."
filter\A machine or device that removes dangerous or unwanted materials from a substance passing through it is called a filter. A kitchen water filter makes the water safer to drink — and also taste better.
fin\A fin is the part of a fish's body that protrudes into the water and helps it balance and move in various directions. Sharks use their dorsal fins to stabilize their bodies as they propel through the water.
finance\To finance something is to pay for it, like using the money you earn at your part-time job to finance your cell phone bill.
finch\any of numerous small songbirds with short stout bills adapted for crushing seeds
fine art\the products of human creativity; works of art collectively
firm\The adjective firm describes something that's strong and unwavering. If your great Aunt Martha had a firm belief that children should be seen and not heard, you and your siblings might have spent your childhood driving her crazy.
first\First is number one, prior to, or before. First comes first, then comes everything else. It's always good to be first in line or in first class. Who wants to be second? Or worse — last?
fitness\Fitness is good physical condition. If you're a fitness nut and you're constantly working out, everybody else at the gym might be eyeing your sculpted muscles with envy and marveling at your stamina and strength.
flag\A flag is a piece of cloth that represents a country, group, or institution. If you're particularly proud of your Irish heritage, you might fly an Irish flag in your front yard.
flagellum\A flagellum is part of a cell, a sort of thread that helps the cell move around by moving like a whip. Bacteria are among the cells that can have flagella.
flake\A flake is a tiny piece of something. A flake could be a tasty morsel like a croissant flake, or a not so tasty morsel — like a dandruff flake. Ewww.
flame\The flame of a fire produces light and heat and often flickers or dances. As a verb, to flame is to be on fire or to flare up.
flap\You're probably familiar with the verb to "flap," which is what birds do with their wings. But as a noun, a flap is a fuss, an argument, or a gossipy feud.
flask\A flask is a small container that holds a liquid. Most flasks have a squarish body and a small neck for drinking or pouring. Don't try sneaking a flask into your tube sock.
flat\A flat is an apartment. If a girl invites you up to her flat, she's not trying to squash you, she's inviting you over. And she's probably from England, because flat is much more common in British than American English.
flavoring\something added to food primarily for the savor it imparts
fleet\A fleet is usually a large group of ships, but it can be any group of vessels like planes or cars that operate as a unit. A naval fleet is the largest formation of warships. A naval fleet at sea is like an army on land.
flexible\Something that is flexible is easily bent without breaking. The flexible drinking straw was invented in the 1930s by a man who saw his daughter struggling to drink a milkshake with a straight paper straw.
flint\Flint is a very hard type of rock. Ever since humans first learned to make tools, back in the Stone Age, they've used flint.
float\Float is what you do when you're lying on the water. Hopefully you know how to swim, so you can float suspended on the surface of the water, rather than sinking straight to the bottom.
flock\The word flock refers to a group of animals, like birds or sheep, that have congregated together. The flock of pigeons at the park is so tame that they'll eat right out of your hand.
flora\The flora of a particular area consists of its plant species, considered as a whole. The word also refers to the plant life of a particular era — for example, fossilized plants can help us determine the flora at the time of dinosaurs.
flourish\A flourish is an extra touch — a trumpet's "ta-ta-da!" announcing a king's entrance, a fancy carving atop an otherwise utilitarian pillar, a wave of a flag or a cheerleader's pompom.
flout\To flout is to scorn or show contempt for. "I flout the law and the concept of civilian safety by making a concerted effort to jaywalk every time I cross a street."
fluctuate\Something that fluctuates varies or changes — it's the opposite of steady. Like the ups and downs of the stock market or the relationship status of a Hollywood starlet.
flux\The noun flux describes something that constantly changes. If your likes, dislikes, attitudes, dreams, and even friends are changing all the time, you may be in flux.
fold\To fold is to crease or bend something over so it covers part of itself. Before you put your clean sheets and towels away in the closet, you should probably fold them.
foliage\his application
folklore\Stories, customs, and beliefs that are passed from one generation to the next are called folklore. According to folklore, you shouldn't take rocks from the volcanoes in Hawaii because Pele, the volcano goddess, will be angry and curse you.
following\A following is a group of fans. The Beatles had a huge following. Following also means “coming after.” Rabid fans were always following the Fab Four around.
foment\Stand outside the school cafeteria passing out flyers with nutritional details on school food, and you may foment a revolution — foment means stirring up something undesirable, such as trouble.
forage\To forage is to wander around looking for food. When it’s cold and snowy outside, birds may forage for food in your backyard, digging around for whatever they can find.
forecast\A forecast is a prediction of what will happen. If the weather forecast calls for sunny skies, consider leaving your umbrella at home. (But, since forecasts aren’t guaranteed to be right, don’t blame us if you get rained on.)
forefront\his application
forelimb\the front limb (or the homologous structure in other animals, such as a flipper or wing)
foremost\Foremost is an adjective that means holding the highest position or rank. When naming advisors, presidents usually search for the foremost experts on various subjects.
foreshorten\When an artist foreshortens, she makes an object appear closer or a distance shorter than it is, to create a sense of depth in a painting or drawing.
forget\When you forget something, you can't recall or remember it. An actor who forgets his lines might need some helpful cues from the other actors on stage.
formal training\his application
formal\Being formal is all about being taken seriously. If you're invited to the White House, you'll want to make a good impression, so it's a good idea to adopt a generally formal demeanor. No jeans or trash talking allowed.
format\In saving a new electronic document, you must choose a format, for instance PDF, Word doc, or XML, which dictates how the information is to be organized, displayed, and manipulated.
formation\A formation is an arrangement of people or things. Planes flying in formation make a deliberate, specific pattern in the sky.
former\Former refers to something that came at an earlier time, or before something else. For example, someone who believes in reincarnation might wonder about their former life — or even lives — before their present existence.
formidable\What do the national debt, your old gym teacher, and your mother-in-law have in common? They're all formidable — that is, they inspire fear and respect thanks to their size, or special ability, or unusual  qualities. (Or possibly all three in the case of your mother-in-law.)
formulate\To formulate is to come up with a plan. If you are locked out of your house, you'll need to formulate a plan to get back inside — preferably one that doesn't involve kicking in the door.
fort\A fort is a place that's made strong and secure enough to be defended during a war. Although it’s usually a military word, you can also make a fort with chairs and a blanket to defend against annoying little siblings.
fortuitous\his application
fortune\A fortune can be a large amount of money, and fortune is a form of fate. So you want to have the good fortune to make a fortune during your career.
fosse\ditch dug as a fortification and usually filled with water
fossil\Fossils are the really, really old remains of a plant or animal — so old they've turned to stone. Fossil is also an insult for an old or old-fashioned person.
foster\To foster is to nurture something. A teacher could foster creativity by providing crayons to every student. You can also foster a child, which means the child lives in your home for a time.
fountain\A fountain is a decorative structure that shoots streams of water into the air. You might see a big fountain in front of a museum, or install a small one in your back yard.
fraction\his application
fracture\Think of something hard breaking in a crisp, snapping manner, and you've just imagined a fracture. The word is most often applied to a broken bone, but it can used to describe any sharp, sudden break of something solid.
fragile\If it's delicate and easily broken, like a rare glass vase or the feelings of an overly emotional friend, it's certainly fragile.
fragment\A fragment is a small piece that’s come off a larger whole, and to fragment is to break. If your teacher writes "frag" on your paper, you've got an incomplete sentence.
fragrant\Something that is fragrant has a nice smell. What makes a smell nice is subjective, or course. You might find a bowl of dried lavender to be fragrant, but your dog might prefer a pile of horse poop.
frame\A frame is a basic shape or structure, especially one that outlines or surrounds a door or window. If you slam your bedroom door hard enough, the whole frame might shake.
France\a republic in western Europe; the largest country wholly in Europe
fray\The word fray is all about friction. A frayed rope has been rubbed so much its fibers are wearing away. People experiencing friction are involved in a fray, or a noisy fight.
freelancer\a writer or artist who sells services to different employers without a long-term contract with any of them
freight\Like many nouns that can mean an action as well as an actual thing, freight refers to either the sending of goods or the goods themselves. It can also mean the charge for sending goods. You pay freight for the freight of your freight.
frenzy\In a frenzy, people go into a state of hysteria. Stay away from hungry sharks or kids at a 16th birthday party when the pizza arrives if you don't want to get caught up in a feeding frenzy.
fresco\Whether you've studied art history or not, you're probably familiar with the world's most famous fresco: Michelangelo's paintings on the walls and ceiling of the Sistine Chapel in Rome.
friction\When one thing rubs and grates against another, it causes friction. That can include two clashing personalities or simply a match striking the matchbox and causing a spark.
fried\Things that are fried are cooked in very hot fat or oil. You can order fried rice at a Chinese restaurant, or fried clams at your favorite seafood place.
fright\Fright is a feeling of fear, dread, or terror. You might scream in fright while watching a scary movie or riding a roller coaster.
frigid\Like the North Pole on the coldest day of winter, frigid is an adjective that means extremely chilly. It applies to both temperatures and personalities.
frost\Frost is a thin, icy coating that forms on very cold, damp nights. During a New England winter, you'll have to scrape frost off your car windshield almost every morning.
frugal\A person who lives simply and economically can be called frugal. Buying clothes at a consignment shop would be considered frugal. Not getting your mom a gift for her birthday — that's just cheap.
frustrate\When you frustrate someone, you do your best to annoy, confuse, or even torment that poor person. Maybe you constantly change your mind — that's sure to frustrate anyone who tries to make plans with you.
fulfill\his application
function\In the old "Schoolhouse Rock" song, "Conjunction junction, what's your function?," the word function means, "What does a conjunction do?" The famous design dictum "form follows function" tells us that an object's design should reflect what it does.
fund\A fund is a supply of money to be used for a specific purpose. You can start a fund for almost anything, such as your child’s education, a new car, or the establishment of the world’s largest origami collection.
fundamental\When asked what the fundamental, or essential, principles of life are, a teenager might reply, "Breathe. Be a good friend. Eat chocolate. Get gas money."
funding\College is expensive these days, so if you plan on going, you may need some funding — or money that makes projects possible.
fungus\Is there a fungus among us? A fungus is a simple organism that's not an animal or a plant. A delicious mushroom is one kind of fungus, while another type of fungus causes nasty infections.
furnace\A furnace is an appliance that heats houses and buildings by burning fuel or circulating hot water. Your furnace might rumble in the basement, sending heat up through your house's radiators.
furnish\If you provide something needed, you furnish it. You can furnish an answer to a question in an interview, furnish the snacks at a party, or furnish a room by filling it with couches and chairs.
furrow\A furrow is a groove or a depression. Originally, furrows were created in soil for water to flow. Now, its most common meaning is of a deep line or wrinkle on the face, as in a "furrowed brow."
fuse\A fuse is something that burns in order to ignite a bomb. Do you see anything near you that resembles a bundle of dynamite sticks with a fuse burning down? If so, stop reading this and GET OUT OF HERE!
gait\Some people have a very distinct gait, or manner of walking or running, which allows you to recognize them from far away.
galaxy\A galaxy is a collection of stars and planets that are held together by gravity. In a galaxy, the celestial bodies rotate around a central object.
gallery\A gallery is an area of a building that's usually long, narrow, and has a specific function. You might visit an art gallery to check out a row of paintings hung on its walls.
gallop\A gallop is a horse's fastest gait, a full-on run. A loud noise might cause a trotting horse to panic and break into a gallop.
gangster\A gangster is a member of a criminal gang. Gangsters are sometimes called mobsters.
gaol\a correctional institution used to detain persons who are in the lawful custody of the government (either accused persons awaiting trial or convicted persons serving a sentence)
gap\A gap is the space between two things. It can be physical (like "the gap between your two front teeth") or philosophical (like "the generation gap" between you and your parents).
garbage\his application
gaseous\Describe the form of a substance that's not solid or liquid as gaseous. Gaseous matter will expand to fit an entire container, and it has no volume and no shape.
gasoline\a volatile flammable mixture of hydrocarbons (hexane and heptane and octane etc.) derived from petroleum; used mainly as a fuel in internal-combustion engines
gather\Gather is a verb with many related meanings, most involving drawing together or assembling something. You may gather your socks into the laundry bag, or you may gather your thoughts by making a list.
gaucherie\the quality of being rustic or gauche
gear\The noun gear refers to several things. First, it’s the equipment we need for a sport or event. A gear is also a wheel with teeth that interlocks with another gear to transmit motion in a machine.
gem\A gem is a precious or semi-precious stone, or a jewel. A silversmith might experiment with adding gems to her rings and necklaces.
gemstone\a crystalline rock that can be cut and polished for jewelry
gender\People use the word gender to indicate your biological sex or your sense of being female, male, or a combination of both. Danica Patrick is someone who has broken many gender barriers by being a successful female race-car driver in a male-dominated sport.
gene\Microscopic, yet powerful, a gene is segment of DNA, the molecule that stores the code for building living bodies.
generalize\To generalize is to use specific examples to make broader points. Generalizing makes large points, though they aren't always necessarily true.
generate\Generate means produce or create. A good stock pick might generate cash, and a good idea might generate the basis for an Oscar-winning film.
generation\A generation can refer to a group of people who live at the same time and are about the same age. But generation is also the act of creating something, such as income, ideas or kids.
generous\Generous people are the ones who give more than is expected of them. It's generous of your friend to take the couch and let you sleep in the bed when you stay over at her place. She didn't have to do that.
genesis\When you talk about the genesis of something, you're talking about where it began. The genesis of hip-hop music was the party scene in New York City’s South Bronx in the 1970s.
genetic code\the ordering of nucleotides in DNA molecules that carries the genetic information in living cells
genetic\Anything genetic has to do with your genes and DNA. You inherited your mom's eye color because it's genetic.
genetically\advby genetic mechanisms
genetics\Genetics is the study of the traits people and other animals inherit from their family through DNA.
genial\If you're friendly and outgoing, you're genial. You can be a genial host or a genial guest.
genius\Genius is an exceptional talent or skill, something above and beyond the norm. A genius is someone who possesses this brilliance, like a child prodigy who learned the piano at age 3 and played sold-out concerts by age 5.
genre\A genre is a specific type of music, film, or writing. Your favorite literary genre might be science fiction, and your favorite film genre might be horror flicks about cheerleaders. Go figure.
gentle\Use the adjective gentle to describe something that is soothing or kind, like a person with a tender nature or the soft sound of light rain.
genuine\Genuine things are true or authentic. When you're talking about people, being genuine has to do with being sincere.
geology\Geology is the study of the Earth and what it's made of, including its natural history.
geometry\Geometry is the part of mathematics that deals with calculating the distance around a circle, the angles that make up a triangle, or the amount of room inside a cube.  If it involves measuring space, it’s probably geometry.
geophysics\geology that uses physical principles to study properties of the earth
germ\A germ is a tiny life form that spreads disease. Germs are also small things that grow into larger things — whether animals, plants, or ideas.
gerontology\Doctors and researchers who study the process of human aging call their field gerontology.
get rusty\his application
giant\A giant is someone that's unusually enormous. You can also use the word giant to describe something or someone that is really big. That giant green guy over there? That's the jolly green giant. Ho ho ho.
gigantic\Gigantic is an adjective used to describe something that's really big, as though it were made for a giant. You might call a skyscraper a gigantic building, especially if it towers over other buildings nearby.
gimcrack\adjtastelessly showy
gin\his application
giraffe\A giraffe is an extremely tall animal with a very long neck. You can't miss the giraffes at the zoo, because they tower above all the other animals.
girder\his application
given\A given is some detail or fact that is known to be true. Your mother might say, "It's a given that I'll always love you, no matter how annoying you are."
glacial\Things that are glacial are super cold. A place can be glacial — like the South Pole — but a person can be glacial, too, like that unfriendly girl who gave you a glacial stare.
glacier\A glacier is a very large ice mass, sometimes miles and miles long. Glaciers might not seem all that exciting at first, but people are paying close attention to them because their melting is an indication of climate change.
glamorous\Movie stars look glamorous when they walk down the red carpet in their designer gowns. Glamorous means full of glamour, beauty, and excitement.
gland\his application
glare\When you drive, you pull down your visors to block the glare, or the blinding light from the sun. The "rocket's red glare" from the national anthem is the bright light you'd see as a rocket shoots through the sky.
glaze\his application
glimpse\If you had a brief or incomplete look at something, you had a glimpse. "He didn't mean to peek, but he got a glimpse of his birthday present when his wife tried to sneak it into the house. Of course, it's pretty hard to hide a ladder."
glorify\To glorify is to praise or honor something or someone to an extreme degree.
glossy\Something that is glossy is something that shines or is attractive. Things that are glossy reflect light, like certain types of lipstick. Glossy paper is smooth and has a shine to it, like the paper of most calendars.
glow\To glow is to shine with light. On a clear night when the moon is full, it glows in the sky.
glue\Glue is a liquid adhesive, used to stick two items together. A little kid may use Elmer's glue to decorate an art project, and you may use Krazy Glue to repair a mug's broken handle. Whatever the case, you hope the glue sticks.
glum\To be glum is to be sad. Glum is a word for being depressed, bummed out, or down in the dumps.
gnaw\To gnaw is to bite or chew. Your favorite food might be corn on the cob, because you love to gnaw along each row of kernels.
gong\A gong is a large percussion instrument that you play by hitting it with a mallet. Gongs make a resonant, echoing sound. In the classic game show "The Gong Show," amateur performers tried to impress judges who could end the act by banging a giant gong.
gorgeous\Reach for the adjective gorgeous to describe jaw-droppingly beautiful, magnificent people or things.
gorilla\A gorilla is the world's largest primate — the kind of great, powerful ape you might see on an African safari.
gospel\Follow advice like gospel and you're following it as though it was the final word or authority on the matter.
Gothic\adjof or relating to the Goths
gourd\his application
govern\To govern is to rule, lead, oversee, or otherwise control. Each U.S. state has its own governor, whose job it is to govern the affairs of that state.
governor\A governor leads a state government, just like a president leads a national government.
grab\his application
grace\Grace commonly refers to a smooth and pleasing way of moving, or a polite and thoughtful way of behaving. But when someone says they were late to the airport and only made it onto their plane by the grace of God, they're talking about grace in the context of God's favor.
graceful\Use the adjective graceful to describe movements that are lovely and elegant. If you watch a yoga class, you'll see a variety of styles, ranging from awkward to graceful.
grade\Grade means "to evaluate or rank," like teachers who grade their students or a food inspector who grades a crop, determining whether it is "food-grade."
gradient\The gradient of a surface is its slope. If you're a daredevil and you're looking for a road to fly down on your skateboard, you'll want to find one with a fairly steep gradient.
grading\When your teacher stays up until four in the morning assigning scores to student work, that's the grading of papers. Grading can also mean smoothing a surface, as in grading a lawn before planting seeds.
gradual\Use the adjective gradual to describe something that happens slowly, bit by bit, like the gradual increase in the amount of daylight in winter.
grain\When carpenters sand a piece of wood, they "go with the grain." Grain is the texture on piece of wood, which often forms long patterns that show the direction in which the tree grew.
granddaughter\a female grandchild
granite\Granite is a type of rock that's commonly polished smooth and used for things like kitchen counters. Granite is dark and textured, with swirls of lighter colors.
grant\You can grant anything from a permanent restraining order to a request for time off, or, if you’re a genie, seven wishes. When you grant something you are letting someone have or do something that they are asking for.
granular\Something granular has a grainy texture. Granular sugar is the white kind you find in sugar bowls, and a sandy beach is very granular, too.
graph\A graph is a visual plotting of the relationship between two or more quantities, like a math map. To graph is to create such a chart.
graphic\Something graphic is visual. Graphic design is made of visual elements. A graphic novel tells its story with pictures. And a story that is too graphic is too good at showing you things that are, for example, shocking or violent.
grasp\To grasp is to get a hold of something, literally or figuratively. Grasp the grammar textbook with both hands and then read it to grasp the rules of the English language.
grasshopper\Grasshoppers are chirping insects that hop.  A grasshopper can use its long legs to leap up to 20 times its own body length — that's pretty impressive for a bug!
gravel\Gravel is very small, irregular pieces of rock and stone. Your gravel driveway might crunch under your boots as you walk to the mailbox.
gravitational\adjof or relating to or caused by gravitation
gravity\In physics, gravity is the natural force that causes things to fall toward the earth. The noun gravity can also mean seriousness or solemnity.
grazing\the act of grazing
greeting\(usually plural) an acknowledgment or expression of good will (especially on meeting)
gregarious\If you know someone who's outgoing, sociable, and fond of the company of others, you might want to call her gregarious.
grenade\A grenade is a small explosive device, a little bomb that can be thrown by hand. The earliest grenades were contained in ceramic jars and thrown by ancient Byzantine soldiers.
grievous\If something is called grievous, you better take it seriously. Grievous is used to describe horrible things like tragedies or crimes. If you have a grievous wound, a band aid simply won't do.
grimly\advin a grim implacable manner
grind\If you like to grind your own coffee beans, it means you prefer to buy whole beans, put them in an electric grinder, and pulverize them into tiny bits before you brew your coffee.
grip\To grip something is to hold it firmly. You might grip the TV remote to keep your roommate from trying to change the channel.
grit\Grit is a coarse, gravelly dust. If you don't rinse dried beans before you cook them, you may end up crunching grit between your teeth.
groan\A groan is a sound of pain or disapproval that doesn't consist of words, usually heard after homework is assigned or bad jokes are told.
grocery\(usually plural) consumer goods sold by a grocer
groom\To groom means to take care of the appearance, whether it's plucking eyebrows or combing hair. When you spend over an hour grooming in the bathroom, combing your mustache and buffing your nails, you drive everyone else who needs to use the bathroom crazy.
gross\Get ready, because gross has a few different meanings. When something is gross, it's disgusting. The noun, a gross, is the complete amount (before expenses), and the verb "to gross" is to bring in money.
grudge\If you tend to hold a grudge, you don't let it go when you feel someone's insulted or wronged you.  I hope you won't hold a grudge against me for bringing it up.
guarantee\To guarantee is to promise or to a make binding agreement. If a baseball player guarantees his team will win the World Series, he better not lead the league in strikeouts.
guideline\A guideline is a rule-of-thumb or suggestion that shows or tells you how to behave. If you want to stay healthy, you might want to follow the government's dietary guidelines. Sample guideline: go easy on the salt.
guilty\Someone guilty has done something wrong or illegal. And when you do something wrong, you feel guilty — bad or sorry — about it.
gulf\Deep, wide and often filled with water, a gulf is any vast and seemingly unbridgeable area.
gull\You know those birds that hang out by the ocean, and grab your sandwich if you aren't paying attention? Those are gulls, also known as sea gulls. Gulls are found in every continent, including Antarctica.
gullible\If you are gullible, the joke is on you because you are easily fooled.
gusto\You can do many things with gusto, or hearty enthusiasm, whether it's eating a steak, playing table tennis, or cheering on your favorite team. Some people live their whole lives with gusto.
Gwendolyn\his application
gym\A gym is a building or room that's meant for playing indoor sports or exercising. You might go to the gym to pump iron, or you might go to the gym to see who else is pumping iron.
gymnasium\A gymnasium is a place people go to exercise or participate in sports. Your neighborhood gymnasium might be a good place to play basketball, pump iron, or to check out the other gym rats.
habitat\Your habitat is the environment you are accustomed to living in. Zoos usually try to mimic the habitats of the animals they keep, housing bats in a nocturnal house and monkeys in a cage with trees to climb and swing from.
hail\Hail is when chunks of ice fall from the sky.  Also, to hail someone is to greet them or say good things about them. Or it can be a way to tell people of your homeland, as in: "I hail from the Moon."
hallow\To hallow is to bless, consecrate, or render holy by means of religious rites, especially significant religious places or the relics of saints.
hammer\A hammer is a tool you can use to drive nails into wood or other materials. You'll find a hammer in just about any toolbox, since it's useful for hanging pictures, making repairs, or breaking things apart.
hamper\Anything that hampers slows progress or makes it difficult to do something. You might think that the presence of your parents hampers your ability to look cool.
hand\Your hand is the appendage with fingers at the end of your arm. When you clap your hands, you loudly smack their palms together to express your appreciation and enthusiasm.
handy\Someone who's handy is skilled and clever, especially when it comes to making or fixing things. If you're handy in the kitchen, you're a good cook.
harbor\A harbor is a safe place providing refuge and comfort. If you're traveling, the harbor provided by a warm hotel is welcome. For ships, a harbor is a sheltered port area shielded from waves, where it's safe to dock.
hardly\The adverb hardly means barely or scarcely at all. If you hardly ever visit your cousins in California, it means you almost never travel to see them.
hardware\As the word suggests, the word hardware usually refers to tools used to build something — “wares” that are “hard.” It also is used to refer to the computer equipment that stores and uses “software,” the programs used in computing.
hardy\Hardy means tough––if you're hardy, you don't get tired easily and can endure hardship. People who don't catch cold often attribute this fact to their coming from hardy farming stock.
harm\Harm is a deliberate injury or damage to someone or something. A playground bully is a mean kid who causes harm to other kids.
harmony\Harmony is the sound of things that go together well — people singing in harmony are in tune with each other. Best friends should be in harmony most of the time if they want to stay best buds!
harness\A harness is a set of straps that are put on a horse so it can be hitched to a wagon or a carriage. The harness distributes the effort across larger sections of the horse's body.
harsh\Harsh means severe or strict, particularly when referring to punishment. It would be a harsh punishment if you got grounded for two weeks just for coming home a little late for dinner.
haste\When something is done in haste, it's done fast, and often with carelessness. In his haste to finish the paper, he didn't notice he had replaced "taste" with "waste" during spell-checking, so his title became "Foods of Our Home State: What a Waste!"
hasten\The verb hasten means to move at a high speed. If you hasten to your room, no one will know that you came in late.
hatch\A bird such as a hen that sits on eggs to incubate them can be said to hatch the eggs. Then, when the chick emerges from the egg, you can also say it hatched.
haul\To haul is to move or take something, usually big and heavy, and put it somewhere else. If you've ever moved to a new house, then you know that having to haul all your stuff there can really take the joy out of moving into a new place.
haunt\The verb to haunt means to appear as a ghost or some kind of supernatural phenomenon. Ebenezer Scrooge was haunted by the Ghosts of Christmases Past, Present and Future.
haven\Need to find shelter, from the weather or from other troubles? Then you need a haven.
hawk\A hawk is a relatively large bird that hunts small animals. Hawks tend to surprise their prey, swooping down on it from above.
hay\Hay is a type of dried grass that's fed to certain farm animals. You might buy bags of hay to feed your pet rabbit, who likes to nibble on it.
hazard\If something is a hazard, it is a potential source of danger. Balloons are fun, but they're a hazard for little kids who might put them in their mouths.
he\the 5th letter of the Hebrew alphabet
heading\his application
healing\the natural process by which the body repairs itself
heat\Objects that give off heat — or a feeling of warmth — include the sun, a radiator, and even your body. You can feel a marked difference in air temperature if you hold your hand near the heat of a candle flame, for example.
heed\Heed is an old word, meaning "to listen to and follow." It can also be used as a noun: "Take heed of my instructions," said the wizard, "for the magic potion will work only by the light of the full moon."
hello\Hello! Hi! How are you doing? Hello is a salutation or greeting commonly used to begin conversations or telephone calls.
hemisphere\his application
hemocyte\his application
henceforth\advfrom this time forth; from now on
herald\his application
herb\What do food, medicine, and perfume have in common? Well, they all can be created from herbs. An herb is a plant that has a soft rather than a woody stem, and it tends to have a unique taste or smell.
herd\A herd is a bunch of animals  — or people who act like a bunch of animals. It's also a verb — when people herd animals, they try to keep them moving in the same direction.
heretical\Something that departs from normally held beliefs (especially religious, political, or social norms) is heretical. If your family is resistant to change, they may consider your idea of making pancakes for dinner to be completely heretical.
heritage\Heritage can refer to practices or characteristics that are passed down through the years, from one generation to the next. Researching your family tree would help you gain a sense of your personal heritage.
hey\his application
hi\Hi is a common greeting, more casual than "hello." When you walk down the street in a small town, it might seem like everyone you pass says "hi."
hibernation\Hibernation is a type of deep sleep some animals (like bears) go into during winter. Hibernation is like a long nap.
hide\You can hide your feelings or you can hide your mom’s birthday present. You can even hide yourself if you need to avoid someone. Whatever it is, when you hide something, you put it out of sight.
hierarchy\Hierarchy describes a system that organizes or ranks things, often according to power or importance. At school the principal is at the top of the staff hierarchy, while the seniors rule the student hierarchy.
hieratic\adjassociated with the priesthood or priests
hieroglyph\A hieroglyph is a picture that represents a word or part of a word. Several ancient cultures, including Egyptians and Mayans, used hieroglyphs as part of their writing systems.
highlight\If you missed the big game, don't worry — you can still catch the highlights on the news. A highlight is the most important or memorable part of something.
hike\To hike is to walk a long way at a leisurely pace. You might love to hike in the woods on weekends.
hind\adjlocated at or near the back of an animal
hinder\The verb hinder means to block or put something in the way of, so if you’re in a high-speed car chase with the police, they might put up a blockade to hinder your progress.
hint\A hint is a slight indication or clue. Your mother might hint at the fact that she doesn’t like your shoes, while your grandmother will just come right out and say that they’re ugly.
hinterland\The hinterlands are affectionately called "the sticks," or the "boonies," short for "boondocks." Use it to specify an area that is far away from a city or town, or even civilization as we know it.  Cell-phone reception and cable television aren't guaranteed.
hitherto\Use the adverb hitherto when you're describing a state or circumstance that existed up until now. If you find a hitherto undiscovered hidden tunnel in your cellar, you're the first to discover it.
hive\A hive can be a home for bees. It’s also a whole bunch of something moving around — like a hive of eager students — which is related to the fact that so many bees live in a hive.
hockey\Hockey is short for ice hockey or field hockey, but it usually refers to ice hockey, the sport where people skate on ice and use big hockey sticks to whack a puck into a goal.
hoe\A hoe is a gardening tool made up of a long handle with a sharp metal blade at the end, used to stab the ground and loosen it.
holiday\A holiday celebrates a person, anniversary, religious belief or other occasion. You might observe the Indian holiday of Holi, and take a week off of work to celebrate with your family.
hollow\his application
homestead\A homestead is a house and surrounding land owned by a family — often, it includes a farmhouse.
homing\adjorienting or directing homeward or to a destination
hominid\Hominids are the group of primates that includes humans, gorillas, and chimpanzees, among others. You are a person, but you can also call yourself a hominid.
homogeneous\If a group of things are homogeneous, they're all the same or similar, like a room full of identically dressed Elvis impersonators.
hook\A hook is a curved piece of metal or other hard material that's used or pulling or holding something. A tow truck is equipped with a large hook to pull cars, and the fictional Captain Hook came equipped with an iron hook to pull off dastardly deeds.
hopeful\If you're hopeful about something, you're optimistic. You think it's going to turn out OK. Your team has been doing well in practice, so you're hopeful that you'll win the finals.
horizon\When you look out your window and note the furthest point you can see––the line where the sky meets the earth––that edge is called the horizon. Horizon can also mean the edge of something in a figurative sense.
horizontal\The opposite of vertical, something horizontal is arranged sideways, like a person lying down.
hormone\Use the noun hormone to describe a message-sending chemical sent out by glands in the human body, which make you hungry or moody or ready to fight.
horn\A horn is an instrument that's made of metal and is played by blowing into it. Another type of horn comes out of an animal's head. Don't confuse the two and imagine a trombone sticking out of a water buffalo's head.
hospitable\When someone makes you feel comfortable and at home, that person is being hospitable, providing a warm, friendly environment. Anything hospitable is welcoming and open.
host\If you've invited people over, offered to entertain, or let someone crash on your couch, then you're a host. Throw a fabulous party and you’ll be everyone’s favorite host. Do it when you're also hosting pneumonia germs, and your guests won't be so grateful.
hostile\If something is hostile, it's unfriendly. If you are zealous about the political causes you believe in, you will be hostile to any suggestion that the other side of the argument is reasonable.
household\How many people does your house hold? That’s your household! A household refers to a family or group of people living together. It’s a social unit under one roof.
hover\A hover craft flies low over the ground or water — it hovers. Hover can also mean waver. Think of someone that can’t decide exactly where to land.
huddle\In a football game, a huddle is a quick conference before a play. Huddle can also be a dense and disorganized crowd, like a group of people standing under an awning waiting for the rain to pass.
hue\Green, orange, yellow, and blue — each of these is a hue, a color or a shade that's true.\r\nA rainbow shows the melting of one hue into another, from red to violet, and all shades in between.
hum\To hum is to make a low, steady, singing sound with your mouth closed. If you don't know the words to a song on the radio, you can just hum along.
humanity\Humanity is the human race, which includes everyone on Earth. It’s also a word for the qualities that make us human, such as the ability to love and have compassion, be creative, and not be a robot or alien.
humid\his application
hummingbird\tiny American bird having brilliant iridescent plumage and long slender bills; wings are specialized for vibrating flight
hurl\When you hurl something, you throw it hard. You might hurl your shoe at a horrible bug if it suddenly scuttled across the floor.
hurly-burly\A hurly burly is a hubbub or commotion. There’s the hurly burly of the schoolyard, or the hurly burly of a food fight. When there’s a hurly burly, things have gone totally higgledy-piggledy.
hurricane\A hurricane is a severe tropical storm with high winds and heavy rain. When a hurricane comes through your town, you should board up the windows and stay inside.
husk\A husk is the fibrous covering of a seed or a fruit that's usually removed before you eat it. To make white rice, the husk is removed from the plant, leaving behind a smooth grain.
hydrant\a faucet for drawing water from a pipe or cask
hydrogen\a nonmetallic univalent element that is normally a colorless and odorless highly flammable diatomic gas; the simplest and lightest and most abundant element in the universe
hydrothermal\his application
hygiene\Hygiene is any practice or activity that you do to keep things healthy and clean. Washing hands, coughing into your elbow, and regular house cleaning are all part of good hygiene.
hypersensitive\adjhaving an allergy or peculiar or excessive susceptibility (especially to a specific factor)
hypocrisy\People who tell you not to eat candy while they chomp away on licorice all day? People who say they hate cars but always beg you for a ride? They are engaging in hypocrisy, or behavior that is different from what they say they believe.
hypothesize\To hypothesize means simply to make a hypothesis. Which is just a scientific way of saying "make a really good educated guess."
iceberg\An iceberg is a huge chunk of ice that breaks off of a glacier and floats around the ocean. Most of an iceberg is under water and can't be seen; that's how a sneaky iceberg managed to sink the Titanic.
ideal\An ideal is a model of something perfect or without equal. As an adjective, ideal describes this ultimate standard for excellence, or something that exists only as an idea.
idealize\When you idealize something, you think of it as being much better than it really is. You might idealize your beach vacation, completely forgetting that it rained almost every day.
identical\When you're looking for exact replicas, don't waste your time on\r\nsnowflakes or fingerprints; no two are identical, or exactly\r\nthe same.
identity\Your identity is what makes you "you." If you are having "an identity crisis," then I guess you can't figure out who you are. Good luck with that.
ideology\An ideology is a set of opinions or beliefs of a group or an individual. Very often ideology refers to a set of political beliefs or a set of ideas that characterize a particular culture.
idiom\An idiom is a form of expression that is particular to a certain person or group of people. If your friend always says, "squirrelly nuteriffic!" when she means something is great, she's using her own idiom.
idle\Something idle is not active. If your car is idling, it's running but not moving. If someone calls you idle, it either means they think you don't have enough to do or that you're just plain lazy.
ignition\An ignition is the firing up of something, usually an engine. Without ignition, your vehicle isn't going anywhere.
ignorant\If you make an ignorant comment, your listeners might laugh at you, might get mad at you, or they might patiently instruct you in the ways that you are uninformed.
ignore\To ignore something is to disregard it. If you ignore the rules of grammar, you're likely to be misunderstood.
illuminate\To illuminate is to light up — with physical light or with an idea. A spotlight might illuminate an actor on stage, and a good chemistry teacher might illuminate students with a lesson on the atomic structure of hydrogen.
illusion\his application
illustrate\To illustrate is to make something more clear or visible. Children's books are illustrated with pictures. An example can illustrate an abstract idea.
imagist\his application
imbibe\Imbibe is a fancy word for "drink."  If you need to imbibe ten cups of coffee just to get out of the house, you might have a caffeine problem.
imitate\When you imitate someone, you copy them. Youth marketers capitalize on kids' desire to imitate––tweens imitate teens, teens imitate young adults, and marketers supply the product lines to make it easy.
immature\Use the adjective immature to describe something that is not fully grown: “Elizabeth rescued an immature sparrow that had fallen from its nest during the storm.”
immediate\Something immediate is happening now or right away. If you're in immediate danger, you'd better run or call 911.
immense\Immense means very large in size, amount, or degree. You might describe the ocean as immense, or your homework load, or the slice of cake your brother took, leaving you a tiny sliver.
immigrant\The United States is a country of immigrants — people who come to one country from another country, in hopes of having a better life. An inscription on the base of the Statue of Liberty welcomes new immigrants: "Give me your tired, your poor, / Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free..."
immune\To be immune to something is to be resistant to it. If you had chickenpox as a child, you should be immune to it now.
immunity\Immunity means exemption or resistance. If you're protected against something, you have immunity to it. Your new silver clothes just might grant you immunity from getting thrown in jail by the fashion police.
immunize\To immunize someone is to give them a vaccine that protects them against disease. A child's pediatrician can immunize her against measles, polio, and mumps, among many other illnesses.
immutable\If you can't change it, it's immutable. There are many things in life that are immutable; these unchangeable things include death, taxes, and the laws of physics.
impact\The noun impact can refer to a physical force (like a collision), an influence (a bad role model or a hero), or a strong effect (a foot of snow will have an impact on driving conditions).
impair\If you make bad decisions in the morning after drinking coffee, you might conclude that caffeine tends to impair your judgment. When you impair something, you damage it or make it work poorly.
impart\Let me impart a little bit of knowledge to you about the word impart. It means to pass on, transmit, or bestow. If you share this with your study partner, you are imparting your new wisdom.
impending\If something is impending, it is about to happen. If you hear thunder in the distance, you might go inside to escape the impending storm.
imperative\When something absolutely has to be done and cannot be put off, use the adjective imperative.
imperceptible\If it's imperceptible, it's impossible to perceive with any of the senses. The world might be spinning, but it's imperceptible from your couch.
impermeable\If you have a waterproof raincoat, you could say that your coat is impermeable to the rain. Something that is impermeable does not allow water or liquid to pass through it.
impersonal\If you're impersonal, you're neutral — you're not showing your feelings or your preference. If you choose people to be on your team by closing your eyes and pointing, that's impersonal — you're not picking your friends or the best players.
impertinence\You have to be sure your teacher has a good sense of humor before you criticize the way he dresses, otherwise you might be scolded for your impertinence. Impertinence means "being rude, insolent, or inappropriately playful."
impetus\An impetus is the force behind something, whether it's a boulder rolling down a hill or a person making a decision.
implement\Apply the noun implement when you want to use a fancy word for "tool." A knife and fork are implements for handling food.
implication\An implication is something that is suggested, or happens, indirectly. When you left the gate open and the dog escaped, you were guilty by implication.
implicit\Use the adjective implicit when you mean that something is understood but not clearly stated. You might think you and your boyfriend might have an implicit understanding that you are going to get married, but it's probably better to talk it through.
imply\Imply means to express, suggest, or show something without stating it directly: A friend’s gruff manner would imply that she’s in a foul mood.
impose\To impose means to force or inflict something on someone else. If you want to impose your musical taste on your parents, play your tunes all day at top volume.
impressionist\adjrelating to or characteristic of Impressionism
impressive\Something that is impressive stands out because it is really good. Some of the most impressive college application essays are those that reflect on past events that shaped who the writer is today.
imprint\To imprint is to mark or stamp something, like with the name of a publisher. It also can refer to any kind of impression or influence.
improvise\To improvise means to make something up on the spot, or figure it out as you go. "Our boss decided to improvise his speech at our company meeting and when he started going off-topic, everyone could tell he hadn't prepared in advance."
impudent\An impudent person is bold, sassy, and shameless. If your teacher asks the class to open their textbooks, and you snap back, "Let's not and say we did," you're being impudent.
impulse\his application
inactivate\vmake inactive
inactive\When things or people are inactive, they're doing little or nothing. A rock, a couch potato, or a gym membership you haven’t used yet is inactive.
inanimate\Inanimate describes a non-living thing. Chairs, baseballs, sofa cushions and sadly, snowmen, are all inanimate objects.
inanity\total lack of meaning or ideas
inaugurate\To inaugurate means to start something, to give it a kick off. The opening day pep rally inaugurates the high school football season.
incense\Incense means both "to make angry" and a stick that burns slowly and emits a strong smell. If your new college roommate burns incense in your tiny dorm room, you might get incensed and storm out.
incentive\his application
inception\his application
incessant\Something incessant continues without interruption. When you're on a cross-country flight, it's tough to tolerate the incessant crying of a baby.
inching\An inch is a small unit of measurement. Twelve inches makes one foot.
incident\An incident refers to a particular happening, sometimes criminal but always noteworthy. If there was a food fight in the cafeteria, an e-mail might be sent to the parents of all students telling of the incident at school.
incinerate\See incinerate and think: "burn, baby, burn!" Whether it’s an old love letter that makes you sad or a terrible picture of yourself, it might be better just to incinerate it, meaning, you burn it.
inclination\You can see the word "incline" inside inclination, which clues you in to the fact that inclination has to do with leaning. Sometimes the inclination is literal; in most cases it's about what you incline toward in a figurative sense.
inclined\If you're inclined to do something, you want to do it, you like doing it, and you may even have an inherent talent for doing it. Alternatively, if the sidewalk outside your house is inclined, that means it slopes upward.
incoherent\adjwithout logical or meaningful connection
inconceivable\If something is inconceivable, it doesn’t seem possible, it’s hard to imagine, or it can’t be true. It might seem inconceivable that a society would choose to pay bankers more than teachers, but it’s true.
inconspicuous\Inconspicuous describes something that doesn't stand out or attract attention. The bad news? You just got pizza sauce on your shirt. The good news? It landed in an inconspicuous spot, so no one will notice.
inconvenient\Inconvenient things are difficult or annoying to do. If someone asks you to help move a couch on a Saturday when you have tickets to a game, that's an inconvenient request.
incorporate\To incorporate is to include or integrate a part into the whole. Incorporate is a more active version of the word "include"; if you incorporate, you are adding something to the mix.
incredible\If it's hard to believe and hard to wrap your head around, it just might be incredible. A hurricane in Kansas would certainly be incredible, but keeping your bedroom tidy all week counts too.
incubate\When a chicken sits on an egg, it incubates it. To incubate means to keep something safe and warm so that it can grow.
incursion\his application
indentify\his application
independent\If your brother says you broke his guitar and you say you weren't anywhere near it, your parents may ask your sister for an independent opinion, as she has no reason to lie. An independent person is free from the control or influence of other people.
indicate\To indicate means to point something out or to present evidence. If you feel sick during a car trip, you can indicate this to the driver by groaning loudly or announcing "I'm going to be sick!"
indifference\his application
indigestion\Indigestion is what happens when your body has trouble digesting food and you get a stomach ache. Some indigestion can be avoided by chewing slowly and not eating a large pepperoni pizza for breakfast.
indispensable\Indispensable is a strong adjective for something that you couldn't do without. If you have asthma and you're packing for summer vacation, your inhaler is indispensable, unless you enjoy gasping on the beach.
individual\The word individual is all about being a single entity that cannot be divided. It can mean person or even personal. A team is made up of individuals, and each individual has individual strengths and weaknesses.
induce\To induce is to move or lead someone to action. A promise of a lollipop can induce a toddler to do just about anything, even sit down and be polite to Aunt Edna. Older kids need something more substantial.
industry\An industry is a group of manufacturers or businesses that produce a particular kind of goods or services. Workers in the textile industry design, fabricate, and sell cloth. The tourist industry includes all the commercial aspects of tourism.
inebriated\Inebriated is just a fancy way of saying drunk. If you see a man staggering down the street grasping a bottle of rum in his hand, chances are he's inebriated.
inert\Something that's unable to move or moving without much energy can be described as inert. Wind up in a body cast and you’ll find yourself not only itchy, but totally inert.
inevitably\If something is totally unavoidable, it is inevitably going to happen. Inevitably, the sun will come up tomorrow.
infancy\Infancy is the earliest part of a person's life, when they're a baby. It's extremely rare for anyone to remember their own infancy.
infant\An infant is a baby. When you were an infant, you weren't able to walk, talk, or feed yourself (but you had a pretty mean burp).
infatuation\Infatuation is falling in love with or becoming extremely interested in someone or something for a short time. If you have an infatuation with a particular singer, you probably listen to her on repeat all day long, at least this week.
infect\To infect is to spread an illness to another person. If you sneeze on your friend, you may inadvertently infect her with your germs.
infection\Infections are what happens when germs invade your body and cause a disease. Some, like meningitis, an infection of the tissues covering the brain and spinal cord, can be deadly. Others, like the common cold, are relatively mild.
infectious\Infectious means able to be spread by infection, like a disease that spreads from one person to another. You'll be uncomfortable shaking Uncle Marvin's hand if you're worried that warts are infectious.
inferior\You might call something inferior if its quality isn't as good as another, comparable thing, like that kite that you can't get to fly no matter how fast you run back and forth while your friend's kite soars overhead.
infirm\To be infirm is to be physically weak. If your great grandmother can't get around without a walker or a wheelchair, you might describe her as infirm.
inflammable\Something that is inflammable can be set on fire easily. You dared not light a match after you accidentally spilled gasoline on yourself because you knew you were inflammable.
inflammation\An inflammation means "setting something on fire." Maybe it's a political movement that suddenly takes hold, romantic feelings, the heat making your shoes feel tight, or someone lighting a campfire.
inflate\Using your own breath or an air pump, you can inflate a balloon — or anything else you need to pump air into. When you inflate something you fill it with air (or any other gas) to make it expand.
influential\If your grandfather worked his whole life in a circus and inspired you to wear clown shoes, you could describe your grandfather as very influential in your life. Something that exerts influence or power can be called influential.
influenza\An influenza is a contagious viral infection. Influenzas tend to spread during the winter, and they're more commonly known as the flu.
influx\If there is a forceful flowing inward or coming in, you can say there is an influx. Every fall, the college town sees an influx of students and the population jumps 30 percent.
inform\To inform is to tell someone news, pass on wisdom, leak gossip, or give instruction.  You've been informed that you won the raffle at the county fair.  What are you going to do with all that cheese?
infrared\adjhaving or employing wavelengths longer than light but shorter than radio waves; lying outside the visible spectrum at its red end
infrastructure\The infrastructure is the basic foundation or underlying framework of an organization or system. In your house, the infrastructure is the system of beams, weight-bearing walls and the foundation that keeps it standing.
ingenious\Something ingenious shows creativity and inventiveness. If someone compares you to Einstein, they're implying that you, too, are ingenious.
ingredient\An ingredient is one part of a mixture. For example, if you're making chocolate chip cookies, flour is just one ingredient you'll need.
inhabit\When you inhabit a place, you live there. When actors inhabit their roles, they seem to become the characters, no longer actors reciting their lines. It is like they live the life of the character.
inhale\To inhale is to breathe in. It is the opposite of "exhale," which is to breathe out.
inherent\Use the adjective inherent for qualities that are considered permanent or cannot be separated from an essential character.
inherit\When your grandmother dies, you might inherit her tea set. Regardless of her death, you might inherit her sense of humor or rather large nose. To inherit is to receive from a predecessor.
inhibit\When you inhibit something, you block it or hold it back. If you put plants in a dark room, you inhibit their growth. A teacher who mocks their students for giving wrong answers inhibits their willingness to speak up in class.
initial\The first letter of your name is your initial. The first thing you say to someone is your initial greeting. Initial is something that occurs first or at the beginning.
initially\The word initially can be used to describe an action that happened first. You might initially want fish for dinner, but then end up getting the pasta special that looks so good.
initiate\If you want to end the feud between your siblings, you might need to initiate peace talks — and come up with a fair way to decide who gets the top bunk. As a verb, initiate means to start. As a noun, initiate refers to someone who has been inducted into a group.
inject\his application
inkling\Is someone yapping on and on and you only have the vaguest idea of what they're talking about? Then you understood just an inkling — a glimmer, a fraction — of what they were saying.
inn\An inn is a place to stay while you're on vacation or on the road. Inns are usually smaller and more charming than hotels, but they serve the same purpose: to give you a place to rest your weary head as you travel.
innate\If a characteristic or ability is already present in a person or animal when they are born, it is innate. People have the innate ability to speak whereas animals do not.
inner\Something that's described as inner is at the center or interior. You inner ear, for example, is the part of your ear that you can't see.
innocent\You may think your fluffy white cat is just an innocent, or harmless, little kitty, but she shows no mercy when attacking that toy mouse.
innovation\An innovation is the introduction of something new. If you run a magazine about new technology, then you're constantly looking out for the next innovation.
innovative\Something innovative is new and original. If you love to experiment and find new ways to do things, you are an innovative person.
inquire\The verb inquire means "to ask for information." If you wonder about how the world began, you inquire about its origin.
insanity\Insanity is an ongoing state of extreme mental illness, which may cause abnormal or antisocial behaviors. If you bark at cats and meow at dogs, you might suffer from insanity.
inscribe\To inscribe means to write something in a permanent or formal way. When you have a jeweler inscribe your initials inside your new ring, she uses a machine to carve them into the metal.
insect\An insect is commonly called a bug. Flies, bees, and wasps are all insects.
insert\When you insert something or someone, you put it into something else. You could insert yourself into a conversation, or you could insert a comma into the sentence you just wrote.
insider\An insider is someone, usually one of a small group, who has access to secret or private information. A political insider knows what really goes on behind the scenes in a campaign or a senator's office.
insight\When you have an insight, you have a feeling or emotion or thought that helps you to know something essential about a person or thing.
insistence\Insistence is when someone persists in forcefully asking for or requiring something. A parent's insistence might be the only reason an unmotivated teenager sits down and does his homework.
inspire\his application
install\Use the verb install to mean "set up" or "put in place." You can install new software on your computer, or even install new officers to your honor society.
instance\An instance is a specific example or case of something. One instance of being chased by a growling dog can make a person spend his whole life being afraid of animals.
instinct\An instinct is something you don't need to learn — it happens naturally, without you even thinking about it. Babies cry by instinct, and ducks follow their mother by instinct.
institute\An institute is an organization or association designed to study or promote something. If you're interested in politics, you might want to do an internship at one of Washington D.C.'s many political research institutes.
instruct\This website is designed to instruct visitors about the meaning of words and their correct usage. To instruct is to give instructions, to teach.
instruction\Instruction is vital for education, as it is the transfer of learning from one person to another. Any time you are given directions or told how to do something you are receiving instruction.
instrument\An instrument is usually a tool for making music, like a piano or a guitar, but it can also be used for almost any kind of tool or thing you use to get something done.
insufficient\If something is insufficient, it isn't enough. A high school diploma is very helpful for getting a job, but by itself, it's probably insufficient to land you a job as an astronaut.
insulate\The verb insulate means "protect from heat, cold, or noise," like when you add an extra layer of clothing to insulate yourself from the cold.
insulin\hormone secreted by the isles of Langerhans in the pancreas; regulates storage of glycogen in the liver and accelerates oxidation of sugar in cells
insult\If you insult someone, you have offended that person — either intentionally or unintentionally — through your actions or words. You might insult your host if you refuse to try the dessert he made from pasta, nuts, and chocolate sauce.
insurance\Insurance is a contract where you pay a little money at a time so you can be compensated later, especially in the case of a disaster.
intact\his application
integral\Something that is integral is very important or necessary. If you are an integral part of the team, it means that the team cannot function without you.
integrate\To integrate is to make parts of something into a whole. It also means to become one unit, or to make a place (like a school) open to people of all races and ethnic groups.
integrity\Integrity is a personal quality of fairness that we all aspire to — unless you're a dishonest, immoral scoundrel, of course.
integument\An integument is an outer layer, like a human's skin or a walnut's shell.
intellect\Intellect is how much intelligence you have. Einstein was known for having a great intellect. Mickey Mouse's friend Goofy has almost no intellect to speak of.
intelligent\his application
intense\Intense means strong or extreme. If you accidentally spill a cup of hot coffee on yourself, you’ll probably feel intense heat, intense pain, and — if anyone happened to be watching — intense embarrassment.
intent\If you are intent on doing something, you are determined to get it done. If you have an intent, you have a motive or purpose.
interact\Talking, dancing, playing a game — all of these activities allow you to interact with other people. To interact means to communicate and react to the people you're involved with.
interest\Interest is  used most often to describe something you like, enjoy or think useful. You might have an interest in African literature, or you might follow the news with interest.
interfere\To interfere is to try to stop something from happening. If you get into a fight on the street, people passing by might try to interfere so no one gets hurt.
interior\Interior commonly refers to the inside of something. When house hunting you might find that the outside of the house is run down, but the interior rooms beautifully renovated.
internal\The adjective internal describes something on the inside. If you're tempted by a second piece of cake, you may have an internal battle with yourself over whether you should eat the cake or not.
internship\An internship is a temporary position with an emphasis on on-the-job training rather than merely employment, and it can be paid or unpaid. If you want to go into publishing, you might have to take an internship before you are qualified for an actual job.
interplay\Interplay is a kind of back-and-forth interaction in which each side affects the other. A beautiful piece of music has the perfect interplay between melody, rhythm, and harmony.
interpret\When you interpret something, you make sense of it. You could interpret a graph, a foreign language, or even Mona Lisa's odd smile.
interrupt\To interrupt someone is to interfere in their activity, disrupt their conversation, or to disturb their peace and quiet.
intersection\An intersection is a point where two lines or streets cross.
interstellar\If something happens or is located in between stars, it's interstellar. If you dream of interstellar travel, you're imagining flying through space — and maybe meeting a few extraterrestrials along the way.
interval\A clock breaks time down into intervals of seconds, minutes, and hours. An interval is a distinct measure of time or the physical or temporal distance between two things.
intimate\Intimate means being close. A small restaurant is called intimate because you're sitting close to the other people, and your best friends are considered your intimate friends.
intoxication\the physiological state produced by a poison or other toxic substance
intrepid\Intrepid is just a fancy word for describing a person or action that is bold and brave. Super heroes are intrepid in their struggle for truth, justice and the American way.
intricate\Intricate things are complex and have many elements: they're not simple. Think of the intricate wiring of a computer's motherboard, or the intricate plot of a movie that you have a hard time following.
intriguing\Intriguing things or people arouse curiosity and have an indescribable draw. If you find the night sky intriguing and enjoy pondering the limitlessness of the universe, you should consider becoming an astronomer.
intrude\When someone says, “I hate to intrude, but…” you can bet she is in fact going to interrupt your conversation or insert her opinion, even though it isn’t wanted. House burglars also intrude, but they don’t usually announce it first.
intuitive\If you're intuitive, you can probably guess what this word means just by looking at it. No? Maybe you're not so intuitive, after all. Intuitive means having the ability to understand or know something without any direct evidence or reasoning process.
invade\When you Invade, you aggressively take over or occupy a place. If a country's leader wants to gain more land, the military might invade a neighboring country.
inventory\An inventory is an itemized list of everything you have. So you better take inventory of what’s in the fridge before going grocery shopping. Otherwise you'll end up with more jars of mustard that you don't need.
invertebrate\An invertebrate is an animal without a backbone. Invertebrate animals include fruit flies and sea sponges.
investigate\To investigate is to look into something systematically. If you don't understand how tornadoes work, for example, investigate the forces of wind and find out.
invigorate\Invigorate means to give strength or energy to something or someone. If you're the new cheerleading coach, you can invigorate the team by bringing them your exciting new cheers, and the team’s growing popularity will invigorate them even more.
invitation\An invitation is a request, a solicitation, or an attempt to get another person to join you at a specific event. You need an invitation to go to the Academy Awards, even if you're George Clooney.
inviting\Inviting things are very appealing. Your host's inviting smile makes you truly feel welcomed and even a little bit charmed.
involve\To involve means to connect. When you get involved in the Spanish Club, you attend meetings and events. If doing math well is involved in understanding advanced chemistry, that means it's a necessary part of it.
iris\Your iris is the colored part of your eye that surrounds the black pupil in the center. If your irises are brown, you can say you have brown eyes.
ironic\If something is ironic it's unexpected, often in an amusing way. If you're the world chess champion, it would be pretty ironic if you lost a match to someone who just learned to play yesterday.
ironically\When you see the word ironically, you know there's a disconnect between what is happening and what was expected to happen. You won the race, even though, ironically, you're the only one who didn't train.
irony\Reserve irony for situations where there's a gap between reality and expectations, especially when such a gap is created for dramatic or humorous effect.
irresistible\If something is irresistible, you have to have it, like the plate of gooey chocolate chip cookies sitting in front of a group of dieters who one by one help themselves to a handful.
irrigate\his application
irritable\If you're feeling on edge, like the smallest thing could bother you or make you lose your temper, you are irritable.  Did I say something wrong?
irritate\To irritate is to cause an unsettling reaction, whether it's of the body or the nerves. You can irritate someone by talking too loudly on your cellphone in public. You can also irritate your skin, causing a rash or redness.
isolated\Isolated means far away from everyone or everything else. The hermit who lives on a remote island is isolated from the rest of the world, with nothing but coconuts and fish to keep him company.
issue\One copy of "Celebrities are Cool" magazine is an issue. It is issued, or put out, by the publisher. You and your mother may argue over the issue, or topic, of whether or not you should read it.
ivory\Ivory is a hard, white substance found in the tusks of animals such as elephants. Ivory also refers to a white-ish color, like the ivory keys on a piano.
jacquerie\his application
jar\A jar is a smooth-sided, round container that's often made of glass. Jars are useful for storing food, from rice to tea bags to cookies.
jargon\Jargon usually means the specialized language used by people in the same work or profession. Internet advertising jargon includes the terms "click throughs" and "page views."
jaw\his application
jeans\(usually plural) close-fitting trousers of heavy denim for manual work or casual wear
jelly\his application
jeopardize\Jeopardize means to put at risk or pose a threat. Jeopardize your career by posting silly pictures of yourself on Facebook. Jeopardize your friendships by posting silly pictures of your friends on Facebook.
jewelry\Jewelry refers to an adornment (generally precious metal or stone) worn by a person, like a bracelet, ring, necklace, or earrings. Jewelry may be purely decorative, or it may express something — like a ring that says you are married.
jitter\a small irregular movement
jog\When you jog, you run at a moderate pace, usually to get exercise. If you jog down the street, you'll pass people who are walking and be passed by people who are sprinting.
joint\Whether it’s the bones making up a skeleton or the wooden sections on your breakfast table, the point where two things come together is called a joint.
jot\When you jot something, you write it quickly. You might jot down a friend's email address on the back of your grocery list.
journal\If you keep a daily––or at least somewhat regular––written account of your life, you are keeping a diary or journal. A journal is also a periodical, such as a scientific journal or a scholarly journal.
juice\Juice is a drink that's made from fruit, like orange juice or grape juice. Juice also refers to the liquid drippings of cooked meat and other food.
jumble\When you jumble something, you throw a bunch of items haphazardly together. For example, many people jumble many random things in a kitchen junk drawer.
junction\The noun junction refers to a meeting or a joining of some kind. If you live at the junction of Main and State streets, then your house is where those two streets meet.
Jupiter\(Roman mythology) supreme god of Romans; counterpart of Greek Zeus
justice\Justice is the quality of being just or fair. Super heroes fight for justice because they want everything to be fair and not let bad guys win. Just ask Wonder Woman, Superman, or any other member of the Justice League.
justify\To justify is to make excuses for one's actions, like the dieter who has to justify the few tiny pieces of chocolate she's sneaked in between salads.
juvenile\If you're being juvenile, you're not acting your age.  Unless of course you are a juvenile.  In which case, carry on.
kangaroo\A kangaroo is a large animal that leaps or springs on its big, strong back legs and uses its heavy tail for balance. If you visit Australia (or the zoo), you may see a kangaroo.
keen\If you have a keen interest in something, you are really, really into it. Keen is an adjective that describes something that is intense, sharp, or focused.
kennel\A kennel is a structure or business that houses animals, particularly dogs and cats. You might leave your dog at a kennel while you go on vacation.
kernel\Whether it’s the kernel of a pistachio nut or the kernel of wisdom in a story, kernel can refer to the center or essential part of something.
kerosene\Kerosene is an oil that's commonly used for fuel in stoves, lamps, and heaters. If you go camping, you might heat up some chili over a portable kerosene stove before telling ghost stories.
kiln\A kiln is a special kind of oven for firing things like pottery and bricks. A ceramic artist might use a kiln once a week to fire the bowls he's made from clay.
kinetic\If you marvel at the kinetic pace of popular cartoons, you are amazed at how lively and energetic the shows are. Kinetic comes from a Greek verb meaning "to move."
label\The saying “labels are for jars not people” means it’s OK to put a description on a jar so you know what’s inside (a label), but it’s not okay to judge people by attaching a label, or description to them, such as "nerd," "jock," or "burnout."
labeled\When something is labeled, it has a marker that clearly identifies whose it is or what it contains. If your labeled suitcase gets misplaced, it has a better chance of being returned than a bag without a tag.
laboratory\A laboratory is a place where experiments happen, usually scientific experiments involving chemicals and lab coats, but there are creative and athletic laboratories too, where people experiment with writing and footballs.
lace\Your grandmother's kitchen curtains might be made from lace, a delicate fabric with twists and loops forming patterns of holes.
lament\If you are really upset or sorry about something, you might lament it. A lament is full of regret and grief.
landing\the act of coming to land after a voyage
landmass\a large continuous extent of land
landscape\his application
lapse\A lapse is a temporary slip, failure or break in continuity. If you’re normally polite, a lapse in manners could make you forget to say “please” and “thank you.”
larva\The immature form of many insects and amphibians is a larva. A caterpillar is one example of a larva — it has hatched from an egg and will eventually become a fully mature butterfly.
laser\A laser is a focused beam of light used for many reasons, from eye surgery to gun scopes to laser pointers.
lash\A lash is a sharp slap or strike with a rope or whip. In some parts of the world, lawbreakers receive a certain number of lashes as punishment for their crimes.
lasting\If something is lasting, it sticks around for a very long time. If you and your best pal have known each other since you were three, that's a lasting friendship.
latent\Latent is an adjective that you use to describe something that is capable of becoming active or at hand, though it is not currently so.
lath\a narrow thin strip of wood used as backing for plaster or to make latticework
Latin\any dialect of the language of ancient Rome
latitude\Use the word latitude to describe how much freedom you have in making choices. For example, if a teacher gives you latitude in writing your paper, you might get to choose the topic and how many sources to include.
latter\When you are comparing two things, the first one is known as the former and the second as the latter. For example, George Bush and George W. Bush were both U. S. presidents. The latter was the son of the former.
launch\To launch something is to propel it or get it going, usually from a standing position. You can launch a rocket, a career, a product or even a watermelon. Either way, you're getting it off the ground.
laundry\Laundry refers to the clothes and bedding that you can wash in your washing machine or at the laundromat. Nothing smells quite as good as clean laundry.
laureate\someone honored for great achievements; figuratively someone crowned with a laurel wreath
lava\Is lava flowing through your street? Then you'd better run! Lava is the hot liquid rock that pours from an erupting volcano.
lawn\A lawn is an area of ground that's planted with grass. Your next-door neighbor might be so overly proud of his tidy lawn that he stands on it, glaring at the dandelions growing in yours.
laxity\Laxity is a tendency of being too easy-going, or not strict enough. If your teacher doesn't punish her math class for climbing out the classroom windows, she may be accused of laxity.
lay\To lay is to set something down or put it in a horizontal position. It can also mean to position or prepare something for action, or, simply, to lay eggs.
layer\The noun layer describes a thin piece that's stacked on other thin pieces, like a layer of noodles in a lasagna dish. You can also apply a layer of paint to make your wall color more vivid.
layman\A layman might have a small amount of knowledge about something, but she isn't officially trained in the subject. If you need brain surgery, don't consult a layman; stick to a professional brain surgeon.
layout\a plan or design of something that is laid out
leading\adjgoing or proceeding or going in advance; showing the way
league\The two meanings of league are quite different — either it’s a group or federation joined for a common purpose (say, your bowling league or the League of Nations) or it’s a rough measurement of about three miles, usually at sea.
leak\A leak involves the release of something. It can be a behind-someone’s-back leak of sensitive information, a leak from a milk carton, or a leak in the roof that lets rain water drip in.
leap\The word leap is another word for "jump," but it gives a slightly different image — one of lightness and quickness, perhaps a movement with a little more spring in it than a regular jump.
lease\To lease something is to borrow it in exchange for money. If you lease a car from a dealer, for example, you make payments and you get to drive the car, but at the end of the contract you have to give it back.
leather\his application
ledge\a projecting ridge on a mountain or submerged under water
leftover\adjnot used up
legend\A legend is a larger-than-life story that gets passed down from one generation to the next — like the legends of Beowulf, Robin Hood, or even Big Foot.
legible\Legible describes readable print or handwriting. If someone tells you that your writing looks like "chicken scratch," it might not be legible, except to other chickens.
legislation\Legislation is the act or process of making or enacting laws. Some people think there should be more legislation in the area of education and some people think there should be less — governments debate the matter periodically.
legislature\A legislature is a governing body that makes laws and can also amend or repeal them.
leisure\Leisure is time off, spare time, sweet sweet freedom from the demands of work. It's like playtime for grown-ups.
length\Length is a measurement of how long something is in time or space. You can measure the length of a table or the length of a movie.
lens\A lens is a curved transparent device that bends light, like the lens of eyeglasses or a contact lens you’ll need if the natural lens in your eye needs help. Cameras have a lens, too. Smile!
lessen\To lessen is to make smaller, to reduce, or to weaken. A high school football coach might try to lessen head injuries by improving the quality of the team's helmets.
lethal\Lethal refers to anything dangerous enough to cause death. The cobra's venom is so lethal that if you get bitten and can't find the antidote, it's lights out forever.
lethargy\Is your pet slug always this comatose, or is this display of lethargy unusual? The word lethargy describes inactivity or a lack of energy.
lettuce\any of various plants of the genus Lactuca
level\A level is a position in a scale. Attaining a high level of unemployment is depressing, but getting to a high level on a video game is exciting.
leverage\If you have leverage, you hold the advantage in a situation or the stronger position in a contest, physical or otherwise.
liberate\To liberate something means to release it from confinement. As the saying goes, "If you love something, set it free," — liberate it.
liberated\Liberated describes something that's free from traditional social conventions. If you are a truly liberated dresser, you don't feel any pressure to wear conservative clothes just because that's what everyone else does.
liberty\Liberty is a kind of freedom, whether it's freedom from tyranny, freedom from confinement, or simply the freedom of choice.
librarian\A librarian is someone who works in a library maintaining books and information and lending them to patrons. If you have a research project ahead of you, make friends with the librarian.
license\What does 007's license to kill have to do with that driver's license you can't wait to acquire? Both are forms of permissions conferred officially. If you’re in England, the noun ends in “c,” as in driver’s licence.
licentious\Someone who is licentious behaves or speaks inappropriately, usually in regards to sex.
lichen\Have you ever walked through the woods and seen a crusty-looking shelf growing out of a tree? That is actually a lichen, a complex organism comprised of a fungus and its partner algae, the two parts interweaving to form one.
lighting\having abundant light or illumination
likewise\Likewise means "similarly."  Your attempt to bypass security with a fake ID was unsuccessful, and your guise as a pizza deliverer was likewise ineffective.
limb\Willing to pay an arm and a leg for those World Series tickets? Then you're willing to give up two of your limbs for the season's biggest baseball games.
lime\the green acidic fruit of any of various lime trees
linear\Something linear is like a line. The adjective usually refers to something that follows an expected order or sequence — like railroad tracks or even the progression of a disease.
linen\Linen is a type of fabric that's sturdy, cool, and absorbent. If you're going to a summer wedding, you should consider wearing a white linen suit. If you're going on a job interview, it's probably not such a great idea.
linger\When someone lingers, he or she takes an unexpectedly long time to depart, as Romeo lingers when bidding Juliet farewell (or as annoying houseguests almost always tend to do).
linguist\A linguist is someone who studies language. Linguists study every aspect of language, including vocabulary, grammar, the sound of language, and how words evolve over time.
linguistic\Use the adjective linguistic to describe anything related to language, like the linguistic difficulties you might have if you visit a place where you do not speak the same language as everyone else.
lipid\an oily organic compound insoluble in water but soluble in organic solvents; essential structural component of living cells (along with proteins and carbohydrates)
liquid\his application
listless\his application
literally\his application
literary\Use literary when you want to indicate writing with high artistic qualities.  Something doesn't have to be "literature" to be literary, but they are related.
literature\Literature is writing, usually good, creative, or smart writing, or at least we hope it is. If you love books and have stacks of them at home, then you are a lover of literature.
lithosphere\The lithosphere includes the Earth's crust and the uppermost part of the mantle. The lithosphere's thickness varies depending on whether you measure the thin new crust on the ocean floor or the old crust of an established land mass.
litre\a metric unit of capacity, formerly defined as the volume of one kilogram of pure water under standard conditions; now equal to 1,000 cubic centimeters (or approximately 1.75 pints)
litter\If everyone decided to litter, or drop trash on the ground, the world would be covered in garbage. Litter doesn't always have to be trashy though. When a cat has kittens, they are born as a litter.
livelihood\Your livelihood is the job you work at to earn the income that supports you.
livestock\The animals you find on a farm are collectively called livestock. Your herd of dairy goats are livestock, but your toy poodle is just a pet.
lizard\his application
load\A load is a bundle of stuff that has to be carried. You might spend your days hauling loads of hay into a barn and your evenings dragging loads of dirty clothes into the laundry room.
loan\If you want to buy a car but don't have money, you'll need a loan: a sum of money given temporarily that must be repaid, often with interest, or an added percentage on top the original sum.
lobby\A lobby is a large waiting room or reception area. If you're waiting for an appointment in a lobby, maybe you'll get lucky and find a good magazine or even a peppermint candy.
locality\Use the noun locality when you need an official-sounding way to say "area" or "region." For example, you might say, "I am so pleased to finally have a doughnut shop in my locality."
locally\Things that happen locally occur close to a specific place — near your town, for example. Locally grown tomatoes are picked on nearby farms and sold at your neighborhood market.
locate\If you wanted to decide where to locate your car wash, you might locate a spot on a map with lots of traffic, a parking lot, and a ready source of water. Locate means to find or place.
locomotion\Locomotion refers to the ability to move. "The Loco-motion" is also a dance-song popularized by Grand Funk Railroad. Google it; you won't be sorry.
locomotive\his application
lodge\A lodge is an inn where travelers stay overnight. If you’re in need of a night’s sleep while traveling an out of the way country road, you’re more likely to find yourself at a lodge than a fancy or chain hotel.
log\A log is the trunk of a tree minus the branches: logging is cutting down trees. A log is also a written record of something, and logging is keeping such a record.
logical\Logical describes something that comes from clear reasoning. Using a fire extinguisher to put it out a fire is a logical step. Trying to put it out with gasoline is not.
longevity\Something with longevity has the ability to last for a long time. While tortoises are not known for their quickness, their longevity is amazing. Just ask the Hare.
look\When you look, you focus your vision on someone or something. If you get to the movie late, you'll have to look for your friends in the darkened theater.
loose\If something is loose, it's not attached very securely to anything. Be sure the horse trailer attached to your truck isn't loose, or it might just roll away on its own while you're on the highway.
lounge\It's hard to lounge, or recline comfortably, in the lounge, or waiting area, of an airport terminal.  Maybe they shouldn't call it a lounge.
lower\To lower is to move something downward. When you go to sleep at night, you lower your head onto your pillow (unless you are a horse; in that case, you don't lower anything and sleep standing up).
loyal\If you are faithful and devoted to someone or something, you're loyal. If you refuse to buy milk from anyone other than Farmer Jones, then you're a very loyal customer.
lubricant\Lubricant is an oily or greasy substance that makes machine parts move more easily. If your door squeaks loudly every time you open it, you may want to use some lubricant on its rusty hinges.
lubricate\When you lubricate something, you make it a little bit greasy so it can easily move or slide. You might need to lubricate a rusted bolt in order to unscrew it, for example.
lucid\Something that's lucid is clear and understandable. Lucid writing is important in journalism, so that readers easily get the point of the article they're reading.
lull\See lull, think "calm." It could be the noun form (like "the lull before the storm") or the verb: one can lull someone by calming them (as in lulling a baby to sleep with a lullaby).
lullaby\If anyone has ever sung a song to you before bedtime, trying to lull you to sleep, you can call that song a lullaby. Lullabies are usually soft and soothing tunes — more like "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star" than AC/DC's "Back in Black."
lumber\Do you move clumsily, heavily and slowly, without a shred of grace? Then it sounds like you might lumber. Sorry to hear that.
luminary\In scientific writing, Stephen J. Hawking is a luminary. People look up to this well-known scientist and author for his knowledge and insight.
luminous\his application
luna\his application
lunar\The adjective lunar is used to describe something that is related to the moon. If you like astronomy, you probably enjoy lunar eclipses, when the Earth casts its shadow on the moon.
lupine\When something reminds you of a wolf, you can describe it as lupine. German shepherds are much more lupine than pugs are.
lure\To lure is to entice or bait someone.  A lure is used to bait or entice fish to attach themselves to your hook.  "He had a new shiny lure, which was enough to lure me into going on the fishing trip."
lush\Lush describes something growing in abundance, like the lush green grass that covers the lawn in the spring.
luster\Something with luster has a certain kind of sheen or shininess, like the way a new pair of shoes looks right before you step into a pile of mud.
lutose\his application
luxury\A luxury is something that is pleasant to have or experience, but it is not necessary. For example, eating in a restaurant is a luxury — you can always cook and eat at home.
lyric\The word lyric claims its emotional place in music and poetry, with the words to a song being called the lyrics, while a lyric poem is one steeped in personal emotions, making it song-like.
machinery\Machinery refers to specific machines or machines in general. A farmer has lots of farm machinery, like tractors and plows. Machinery is also the inner workings of something — the machinery of a society is how a society works.
maglev\high-speed rail technology; train is suspended on a magnetic cushion above a magnetized track and so travels free of friction
magma\his application
magnesium\a light silver-white ductile bivalent metallic element; in pure form it burns with brilliant white flame; occurs naturally only in combination (as in magnesite and dolomite and carnallite and spinel and olivine)
magnet\A magnet is a piece of metal with a strong attraction to another metal object. The attraction a magnet produces is called a "magnetic field."
magnetic\Things that are magnetic are attracted to metal. Also, people with charisma are called magnetic. If everything is attracted to you, whether you’re a refrigerator door or a rock star, you’re magnetic.
magnificent\The adjective magnificent describes something that has grandeur, like the magnificent Great Wall of China or the Pyramids, which usually inspire awe in the people who see them.
magnify\To magnify is to make something bigger, whether in size or in significance.
magnitude\Earthquakes have great magnitude in that they are powerful. Their power is rated by their level of magnitude, or how much energy they release relative to other earthquakes.
maintain\Maintain means to keep the same––keep steady, keep up, or keep going. Sure, you can ride your bike super fast on a flat surface, but it can be hard to maintain that speed, or keep the same speed, going up a hill.
maintenance\If you make sure that your house or car or even a database stays in good working condition, you are keeping up on the maintenance.
major\Something major is big, big, big! It's major, baby! It's large! Important! Intense! Powerful! Michael Jackson's album "Thriller" was major, eventually becoming the biggest-selling album of all time.
make\If you offer to sell me your car, I might ask you, "What make is it?" Then you tell me what brand, year and model it is, because in this case make means "type made."
male\A male is a guy, a dude, a boy, or a man. A male animal is not female. Male life forms are the opposite of females in many ways. The biggest way is that males can’t have babies.
malfeasant\one guilty of malfeasance
mammal\What do you have in common with your hamster, a whale, a bat, a giraffe, and the kid who packs your groceries? Every one is a mammal — a hairy, warm-blooded, milk-drinking vertebrate, just like you.
mammoth\The adjective mammoth is a great way to describe something really, really big, like those huge woolly elephants they’re still finding in the melting glaciers.
man-made\adjnot of natural origin; prepared or made artificially
manage\To manage is to skillfully handle something. If you can barely manage to keep your goldfish alive, you should probably think twice about adopting those Golden Retriever puppies.
maneuver\You maneuver your way through a crowd, a bureaucracy, traffic, or traffic cones. You can maneuver a car or a piece of machinery. Army maneuvers are highly coordinated movements of troops, supplies and machinery.
mange\Mange is a skin disease caused by parasites. If your dog gets mange, she'll be very itchy and may develop some bald patches in her fur. Time for a trip to the vet.
mania\Mania is an extreme interest, desire, or craze. If you dye your dog's fur to match the colors of your favorite football team, you might be suffering from sportsmania.
manifest\Choose the verb manifest when someone shows something for everyone to notice. You might manifest your dislike of school food by stirring it around into a big pile of slop on your tray.
manipulate\To manipulate something means to handle it skillfully, like the way a sculptor manipulates clay or a really good politician works a crowd.
manner\Your way of behaving or acting is your manner. Your parents might be fooled by your best friend's quiet, polite manner, but you know that she's capable of being incredibly rude — and hysterically funny.
mansion\A mansion is a huge, fancy house. Some mansions are eventually turned into museums where you can get a look at an old wealthy family's art and furniture collections.
mantle\A mantle is a word for something that blankets over something else, like the loose cloak worn by Little Red Riding Hood or the layer of earth between the crust and core.
manual\Something manual is operated by human hands. Before Eli Whitney invented the cotton gin, picking cotton was a manual job. Nowadays, farmers might need to read a manual to know how to operate a cotton gin.
manufacture\To manufacture something, is to make or construct it, usually for industry and sale. Unless you make all your own clothes, a company probably had to manufacture them.
manuscript\A manuscript is a handwritten work. It's still a manuscript if it's typed — if a publisher asks for your manuscript, don't send her something scrawled on notebook paper!
marble\Marble is a very hard rock that's a particular type of limestone. Fancy lobbies (and even bathrooms) are often lined with marble.
march\To march is to walk with deliberate, short steps that fall in a regular rhythm. You can take your time walking into school in the morning, or you can march right up the steps and through the door.
margin\An amount beyond the minimum necessary is called the margin. If you sell craft items, you need to build in a profit margin so that you actually make money on the sale. You'll go broke if you sell mittens for $10 that cost you $15 to make.
marine\If it has to do with the ocean or sea, you can call it marine. Your friend in the U.S. Armed Services who is a Marine probably spends a lot of time near the ocean.
maritime\Use maritime to describe anything involving the sea and ships. A maritime museum would probably be located in a coastal town, and stuffed full of historic boats, oars, life preservers, and fishing gear.
marked\Marked is an adjective meaning “clear” or “noticeable.” Filling your living room with pictures of pandas will show your marked  appreciation for all things panda.
market\Market is both a noun and a verb that have to do with selling. Companies that successfully market potato chips make people buy a big bag at the market.
marrow\The soft stuff inside of a bone is called marrow. Many people cook with marrow from beef bones and consider it a delicacy.
marsh\his application
martial\An adjective referring to the military, the word martial adds a warlike tone to any noun it describes.
marvel\his application
mask\A mask is a disguise that covers just your face. Your Halloween costume might include a scary monster mask and a furry suit with a tail, or maybe you just wear that for fun.
mason\If you spent the summer building a beautiful stone wall around your backyard, you may have a future as a mason, someone who builds things out of brick or stone.
mass\Anything that has weight and shape has mass. In fact, mass is the quality that gives things weight anywhere there's gravity.
mast\A mast is a pole that rises vertically from a ship and supports the sails. Really big sailboats have more than one mast. A mast is also another name for flagpole.
mat\When you walk into someone else's house, it's polite to wipe your feet on the mat — the pad that covers part of the floor inside the front door.
match\his application
mate\Someone's mate is their spouse, partner, boyfriend, or girlfriend. Your grandmother's long-term sweetheart is her mate. Awwww.
material\Material is cloth from which clothes, curtains, or similar items can be created. If you sew your own bathing suit, it's important to make sure the material you use doesn't turn transparent when it gets wet.
mathematics\Mathematics is the long word for "math," or the science of numbers and shapes and what they mean. Most people need mathematics everyday to count and measure.
mature\his application
maturity\When something reaches its full level of development, it has achieved maturity. Easy enough when you're a perfectly ripe peach. Maturity in humans is not so easy to accomplish or achieve.
maximum\Both a noun and an adjective, maximum takes it to the max: it means the most, the fastest, the biggest.
mayor\The mayor is the leader of a city. He or she heads the city government. Just as a president leads a country, a mayor leads a city. Like other politicians, mayors must run for office and win an election.
meager\Meager means small and often applies to portions. Your mother may only allow you a meager serving of chocolate cake, and you may need to eat a meager serving of veggies in order to deserve that dessert.
meal\When you eat a meal, you sit down and dine on food. Breakfast is usually the first meal of the day, but if you oversleep your first meal might be lunch instead.
means\Someone who has wealth beyond the average person is said to be a person of means. Means can also mean the way something happens. You should try to resolve your fight with your brother through peaceful means––noogies are so undignified.
meantime\The meantime is the time between two events. You might be waiting for the second half of a soccer game to begin, and in the meantime call your best friend to tell her the score.
measure\To measure something is to figure out how much of it is there. A measure can also be a step toward a goal: take measures to ensure you don't flunk an exam by cracking the books.
mechanic\A mechanic is a person who builds or repairs engines or other machines. Mechanics are trained to use special tools and often work in shops or garages. If you are planning to be a mechanic, you have to be prepared to get your hands dirty.
mechanism\Use the word mechanism to describe a process that has been set up to accomplish a particular goal. If you’ve set up a method for dealing with your sister when she annoys you, then you have a mechanism in place for establishing peace with your sister.
mechanist\a philosopher who subscribes to the doctrine of mechanism
mechanize\When you use machines to streamline a process or job, you mechanize it. If you’re tired of pedaling uphill, mechanize your bike by putting a motor on it.
medal\A medal is an award for some contest or achievement. You might win a medal for coming in third place at the cupcake baking championship.
media\Think of the word medium as something in between. In clothing, we have small, medium, and large; in communications, it's what signals travel through from broadcast to receiver; and in spiritual terms, it’s a person who converses with the dead.
mediate\If your two best friends aren't speaking to each other, you might find yourself trying to mediate a peace accord between them. To mediate is to go from one to another and try to make peace.
medieval\Use the adjective medieval to describe something from the Middle Ages, or something so backwards that it might as well be from the Middle Ages. A teacher once rapped your knuckles with a ruler as punishment? That’s practically medieval!
medium\Think of the word medium as something in between. In clothing, we have small, medium, and large; in communications, it's what signals travel through from broadcast to receiver; and in spiritual terms, it’s a person who converses with the dead.
melodic\Something that's tuneful or pretty to listen to is melodic. If your French teacher has a friendly smile and a melodic voice, you could probably sit and listen to her talk for hours.
melodie\his application
melody\In any musical composition, there is a dominant line that creates a tone pattern known as the piece's melody. There are specific rules for the musical composition of a melody, and most fall into regular patterns.
melt\To melt means to fade away slowly and disappear, like a snowman in the middle of the Sahara.
melting\the process whereby heat changes something from a solid to a liquid
membrane\A membrane is a thin layer of something. For an example of a membrane, you don’t have to look far: your skin is a kind of membrane.
mental\The adjective mental describes anything having to do with the mind, just as "physical" has to do with the body. Mental has to do with the intellect, the mind, or the brain.
mention\To mention something is to bring it up. If your mother embarrasses you by constantly mentioning your stuffed animal that you've been sleeping with for the past 15 years, you might mention it to her.
menu\A menu is a list of the food that's available to order. If your vegan friend doesn't see anything on the restaurant's menu he can eat, you may have to ask the chef to make him something special.
mercantile\What do merchants want to do? Buy and sell things to make a profit. The adjective mercantile describes these kinds of efforts and goals.
merchandise\The noun merchandise refers to things that can be bought or sold, like the merchandise that's for sale at your local record shop, or the merchandise sold by sidewalk vendors in a big city.
merchant\A merchant is someone who works in or owns a retail business and sells goods. In Paris you can stroll from merchant to merchant, buying a loaf of bread in one shop and a wedge of cheese in another.
merciful\Use the adjective merciful to describe someone who has compassion for other people, especially when he is in a position to punish them or treat them harshly.
mercury\a heavy silvery toxic univalent and bivalent metallic element; the only metal that is liquid at ordinary temperatures
mercy\Compassion leads you to have mercy, which is like forgiveness. If you have mercy on someone, you let them off the hook or are kind to them somehow.
mere\Mere means pure and simple, nothing more and nothing less. If the mere mention of someone's name makes you happy, then just hearing his name — and that alone — is enough to make you smile.
merge\The verb merge means to seamlessly join something. For example, when you merge onto the highway, you need to smoothly join the traffic, forgetting everything you learned riding the bumper cars at the fair.
merit\Merit means "worthiness or excellence." If you receive a certificate of merit in school, you are being recognized for doing a good job. As a verb, merit means "deserve." Your certificate might merit a prominent place on your bulletin board!
merry\To be merry is to be happy, especially in a fun, festive way. Parties and celebrations are merry, and so are the fun people who attend them. This old fashioned word for “happy” is popular in December when people say, “Merry Christmas.”
mesa\A mesa is a flat-topped hill most commonly found in the Southwest part of the U.S..  Its sides are steep all around so that it looks like a massive table.
metabolic\adjof or relating to metabolism
metallic\Metallic things are either made out of metal or look like they are. Your metallic party dress might be covered in sparkly silver sequins. Yowza!
meteor\A meteor is a space rock that hits the atmosphere of the Earth. It's also another word for a shooting star.
meteorite\A meteorite is a rock that falls to earth after a brilliant meteor has passed through the earth's atmosphere.
meteorology\When the weather man tells you it's going to rain today, he is giving a meteorology report, or weather forecast. Meteorology is the study of our atmosphere.
methane\his application
method\There's a certain way of doing things. A systematic, logical process for accomplishing a task. And it's called a method.
meticulous\Someone who is meticulous pays extreme attention to detail. If that person is, say, your surgeon or your accountant, you'll definitely want them to be meticulous!
metric\If something’s metric, it’s related to a system that uses the meter as a basic measurement. If someone says they'll sell you 3 meters of silk, then you know that the metric system is being used.
metropolis\his application
Mexico\a republic in southern North America; became independent from Spain in 1810
micro\Micro things are so small you can't see them, or reduced to a very small scale. When you study a subject like economics on a micro level, you look at individual markets instead of the whole economy.
microbe\Microbe is a somewhat outdated way for scientists to talk about the tiny bugs that cause diseases. When you get the flu, you can blame a microbe.
microorganism\any organism of microscopic size
microprocessor\integrated circuit semiconductor chip that performs the bulk of the processing and controls the parts of a system
microscope\A microscope is a mechanical instrument that magnifies the image of small objects. You would use a microscope to look at something tiny, like an amoeba.
microwave\A microwave is a small oven that cooks or heats food very quickly. Instead of the electric or gas heat that a regular oven uses, a microwave heats with electromagnetic radiation.
mighty\Something that's mighty is large and powerful. Mighty Mouse is no ordinary mouse; he's a superhero. It's best not to mess with anyone with mighty in their name.
migrate\his application
migration\Migration is the movement of either people or animals from one area to another. Look up in the trees, where you might see a Monarch butterfly make a stop on its migration to Mexico.
mild\A mild person is humble and meek — the opposite of bold. Mild things are also moderate in some way, like pleasantly mild weather or food that’s not spicy. Mild is the opposite of extreme. There’s nothing wild about mild.
military\Ten, hut! So you'd like the definition of military? Yes, Sir! The adjective military is used to describe anything related to the armed forces or soldiers.
millennium\A decade means ten years, a century means a hundred, and millennium means a thousand. Think: a decade of marriage, the new millennium.
mime\A mime is a performer who uses exaggerated facial expressions and body movements — instead of words — to communicate with his audience.
mimic\A mimic is someone who is good at imitating others. A gifted mimic might be able to imitate one president after another just by minimally changing facial expression and manner of speaking.
mine\A mine is a hole in the earth from which workers take valuable things: coal, diamonds, copper. It is also a bomb that explodes when it's touched, often buried in the earth.
mineral\his application
minimal\Minimal means the smallest possible, or the least — as in, "She passed the test with minimal studying." Minimal can also mean simple, as in "The apartment had a minimal decor scheme: white walls, no art, a simple black couch."
minimize\The verb minimize describes making something smaller or less serious. It typically refers to something negative that is being reduced, like when you eat at home instead of in restaurants to minimize expenses.
minimum\The minimum is the lowest or smallest amount possible or acceptable. If you do the minimum amount of work at your job, you might not get fired — but you definitely won't get promoted.
miniskirt\a very short skirt
minor characters\his application
minor\Something that's minor is considered of low importance — a minor injury is not very serious, and a college student's minor subject is a secondary field of study.  Likewise, the star constellation Ursa Major is a larger grouping than Ursa Minor.
minority\If you have eight pennies and twelve dimes, the minority — or smaller portion — of your coins are pennies.
mint\Mint is a green herb with a bright, cool taste and smell. The best part about brushing your teeth is the clean flavor of mint in your mouth afterward.
minute\Craftsmen can paint whole villages or detailed portraits of people on a grain of rice using minute, or tiny, paintbrushes. Often the works of art are so minute that you can only see them with a magnifying glass.
miracle\A miracle is an event so marvelous that it seems like it was sent from above. Catching that foul ball from the stands at the World Series? A miracle!
mirage\Next time you’re traveling in the desert, make sure you carry plenty of water. That enticing pool of water you see far away in the distance may be a mirage, or an optical illusion.
misanthrope\A misanthrope is a person who hates or mistrusts other people. Your great aunt Edna who lashes out at anyone who approaches, convinced they'll steal the jewelry she keeps in her handbag on her lap? A misanthrope indeed.
miserable\Miserable goes way beyond sad — it means absolutely wretched. Someone who's miserable feels absolutely awful.
misrepresentation\A misrepresentation is when you misrepresent, or lie about, something that happened. If you say you were the quarter back of the football team but really you were the mascot, that’s a misrepresentation.
miss somebodys lecture\his application
mission\A mission is a special quest, one that involves more effort than, say, a trip to the corner store. If you were to drive all around the state searching garage sales for porcelain cats, you could say you were on a mission.
mobile\When something is mobile it can move or be moved easily. If you walk to the end of the block talking on your cell phone, you are a mobile being using a mobile device.
mock\Imitation may be the most sincere form of flattery, but to mock is to make fun of or mimic someone with contempt, ridicule or derision. "Louise’s favorite pastime was to mock her brother’s inability to sing on key."
mode\You can describe the specific style of doing something as your mode.  If you're in vacation mode, for example, it might mean you say everything in a super-relaxed voice and spend all of your classes daydreaming.
modeling\Modeling involves making a representation of something. Creating a tiny, functioning volcano is an example of modeling. Teachers use modeling when they have a class election that represents a larger one, like a presidential election.
modem\Simply put, a modem is an electronic device that changes a digital computer signal to audio so it can be carried on telephone lines. It also changes an incoming signal back so it can be read on the computer.
moderate\A moderate voter is someone who is politically speaking, in the center. In other words, they are not quite left or right, but somewhere in the middle.
modest\A person is modest if he or she is very successful but does not call attention to this.
modify\To modify is to change or transform, but only slightly. If you miss your free-throws half the time, your coach will probably try to improve your shooting average by modifying your technique.
modulate\his application
moist\his application
moisture\Moisture is the feeling of wetness — what you want in your cupcake but not in your diapers.
mold\That green fungus growing on your bread is called mold — use it as a science experiment if you want to, but you definitely shouldn't plan on eating it. Mold grows where there is damp, decaying organic matter.
molecule\A molecule is the simplest structural unit of a substance that still keeps the properties of that substance, like a molecule of water. This scientific word also gets used in unscientific ways, as in "Every single molecule in my body wants that chocolate cupcake!"
molten\Molten describes an object that's reduced to liquid form by heating. You're probably familiar with lava, the molten rock that explodes out of a volcano.
monarch\If you think the Queen of England is just the coolest thing ever, then you like monarchs: hereditary rulers of countries usually known as king or queen.
monitor\A monitor is a device or a person who watches or checks to see that all is going well. If you're babysitting, you might use a baby monitor so you can hear if the baby cries in its sleep.
monopolize\If you monopolize something, you won't let anyone else get their hands on it. When you were little, your mom might have said, "Don't monopolize the swing. Let your sister have a turn."
monotonous\When something goes on and on and on and on and on, the same way, for a long time, that's monotonous. Monotonous things are boring and repetitive, like that long story you've heard your brother tell a hundred times before.
monster\Monsters are imaginary scary creatures that lurk in dark places and horror movies. If it's got 3 heads, shark teeth and lives under your bed, then it's probably a monster.
monumental\Whether it's a monumental effort requiring vast amounts of strength or a monumental cruise ship with eleven floors and five sets of elevators, the word monumental describes something imposing or massive in size.
moral\The moral of a story is the lesson that story teaches about how to behave in the world.
morale\Morale is the spirit a group has that makes them want to succeed. It's a sense of well-being that comes from confidence, usefulness, and purpose.
morn\the time period between dawn and noon
mortal\You are a mortal because you are mortal. This means that you are an individual destined to die because you are susceptible to death.
mosaic\If you’ve ever seen a piece of artwork where the picture is comprised of little clay tiles, then you’ve seen a mosaic.
mosquito\A mosquito is a tiny stinging insect that leaves an itchy welt on your skin. Between its annoying bites and its ability to spread disease, the mosquito is not the most popular of insects (unlike the fair ladybug).
mot\When you impress your friends with a witty observation or a funny quip, you use a mot. Your favorite teacher might be well known for her clever mots.
moth\typically crepuscular or nocturnal insect having a stout body and feathery or hairlike antennae
mother\A mother is a female parent: mothers nurture and mother children. It's also a term for an elderly woman or mother superior.
motif\The race car decor in your room, the refrain of a song, the idea or object that keeps popping up in a story — these are all motifs, reoccurring elements that move throughout and shape music, art and novels.
motion\Motion is the way things get from place to place. The ball rolling down a hill is in motion, and as Isaac Newton once proved, it will remain in motion until it hits a wall or something else that makes it stop.
motivate\To give someone the incentive to act in a certain way is to motivate that person. If you give your dad a food-processor for his birthday, you might motivate him to help out with the cooking.
motive\Your reason for doing something is your motive. Your motive to go to school every day is to learn. Or maybe the thought of your parents' anger and a run-in with the truant officer is motive enough.
motor\A motor runs your car, whizzes the blender and gets your golf cart going: it's simply a machine that converts energy into motion.
mottled\Something that is mottled has spots or patches with different shades or colors, like the reddish blotches that can appear on your skin if it’s exposed to extreme temperatures.
mount\To mount is to climb up something, like a ladder, or get on the back of something, like a horse. You can also mount something on another object, like a camera on a tripod or a sticker on a notebook.
mountainous\adjcontaining many mountains
multiple\his application
multiply\When you multiply two numbers, you increase the first by the same number that's specified by the second. In other words, when you multiply two by three, you add together three twos.
multitude\A multitude is a very large number or a huge crowd. If you see a  multitude of zombies approaching, you're in trouble.
mundane\An ordinary, unexciting thing can be called mundane: "Superman hid his heroic feats by posing as his mundane alter ego, Clark Kent."
municipal\A municipality refers to a village, town, or city that's usually governed by a mayor and council. From this noun, we get the adjective municipal, which you can use to describe something that relates to a town or its government.
mural\his application
muscle\Do you have the muscle to muscle your way to the top? Muscle is both a noun and verb associated with strength, power, or the use of physical force.
mushroom\A mushroom is the main body of a certain type of fungus. Edible mushrooms include portobellos and shiitakes. Don't mess around with the inedible types.
musical\Anything musical has to do with music. Tra la la! If you’re really musical, try out for a musical so you can sing on the big stage. And, if you’re playing musical chairs, better find a seat before the music stops!
musician\his application
musicologist\a student of musicology
musky\A musky smell might make you close your eyes and smile, or it might make you leave a room. Either way, it’s a very strong and sweet odor that's hard to ignore.
muted\Something muted has a softened tone or quieted sound. When you try to listen through the wall at what someone is saying, it's really muted and mumbly, even if you put a glass to your ear.
mutual\If the feeling is mutual, both of you feel the same the way, like a mutual admiration society. Mutual means shared. In finance it is used to describe trusts or funds that pool the money of many investors to buy securities.
myriad\A myriad is a lot of something. If you’re talking about Ancient Greece, a myriad is ten thousand, but today you can use the word in myriad other ways.
myth\his application
mythical\Mythical means from myth, fables, or other traditional stories. A mythical story has no basis in historical events. Sometimes someone whose deeds far outshine others is referred to as mythical.
mythology\A mythology is a collection of myths or stories about a specific person, culture, religion, or any group with shared beliefs.  Most people don’t consider mythology to be entirely true, but they still take it seriously.
naked\If you have no clothes on, you're naked. Likewise, things that are uncovered or unhidden, like a bare tree, are also naked.
nap\If you’re really tired during the day, go ahead and take a nap, even if you have to hide under your desk. A nap is a brief sleep. Good night.
narrate\When you tell a story or describe something out loud, you narrate. You might hire a well-known actor to narrate your documentary film about circus elephants.
narrative\A narrative is a story that you write or tell to someone, usually in great detail. A narrative can be a work of poetry or prose, or even song, theater, or dance.
nationalism\Nationalism is the belief that your own country is better than all others. Sometimes nationalism makes people not want to work with other countries to solve shared problems.
native\The word native has to do with where you're from. You're native to the country where you were born, and places have native plants and animals too.
naturalist\That neighborhood kid who is always collecting butterflies and leaves? He just might grow up to be a naturalist, or a scientist who specializes in studying nature.
nausea\When you feel like you might throw up, that's nausea. I know you're feeling sea sick, but if our boat sinks, nausea will be the least of your problems.
nauseate\To nauseate one’s friends is to make them disgusted, sick to their stomachs, or ill.  Generally this is best achieved by serving foul food or sharing someone’s deepest secrets with a sworn enemy.
naval\his application
navigate\To navigate is to determine a path or course. If you volunteer to navigate on your family’s road trip to Alaska, be sure you’re the type who’s willing to stop and ask for directions.
navy\A navy is a military force made up of boats and ships that are equipped for defense and fighting. If you always get seasick, you might think about joining an army instead of a navy.
nectar\Delicious, sweet, and special, nectar is the best juice you can imagine. When the ancient Greeks visualized the gods having a party on their Olympian lawns, they saw nectar in their cups.
needy\People who are needy don't have enough of life's necessities, like money, food, water, education, or shelter. Many charities collect money that helps needy people.
negate\If something neutralizes the effect of something else, then you can say the effect is negated. Hanging a disco ball from your living room ceiling negates the sleek modern effect created by the contemporary furniture.
negative electrode\his application
negative\Negative means focused on what is bad or lacking. A negative ad tells you bad things about the competition. A negative person loves to complain.
neglect\Neglect is worse than ignoring something. It's ignoring it, failing to care for it, and probably harming it in the process.
negotiation\his application
neoclassical\adjcharacteristic of a revival of an earlier classical style
neolithic\adjof or relating to the most recent period of the Stone Age (following the mesolithic)
neologism\A neologism is a made-up or new word. Neologisms can be fun-ti-ful, but the problem is making sure others understand what you mean.
neon\Neon is a gas that’s often used to light up signs. Neon signs are made with tubes filled with the glowing gas. Neon also describes really bright colors that appear to glow, like a punk rocker’s neon orange Mohawk.
nestling\A nestling is a baby bird that can't fly yet and tends to hang out in its — yes, you guessed it — nest. Nestlings have to be fed and cared for by their parents.
neurosis\If you feel overly anxious and worried, that is a sign of neurosis: a mental illness with no particular cause.
neutral\Commonly used to describe a person who doesn’t pick sides in disputes,  neutral also pegs anything that refuses to be bold: the color beige, bland clothing, people with no preferences on where to eat for dinner.
neutrality\If you refuse to take sides in an argument over whether Batman or Superman is the greatest superhero, then you are practicing neutrality. Whether you admire both equally or you simply don’t care, you are a neutral party.
neutron\The nucleus of an atom includes a proton, which has a positive charge, an electron, which has a negative charge, and neutron, which has no charge, or is "neutral." The hydrogen atom is the only atom without a neutron.
nevertheless\A funny-looking adverb that appears to be made up of three words squished together, nevertheless means “even so" or "all the same.”
newsletter\A newsletter is a regular, periodic publication that provides information to a specific group of people. You might subscribe to a newsletter that gives you shopping tips, or one that features information about caring for your pet ferret.
niche\A niche is a space that's all your own, from a literal corner or enclosure to some kind of professional specialty. Like finding a niche in the scented soaps market with peanut butter body wash and winning over a loyal, if not nutty, following.
nickel\A nickel is a five-cent coin that got its name from the metal. Nickel is a silver-colored metal that’s strong and resistant to corrosion, so it’s often blended with other metals. Even the coin is part copper.
nickname\Your special, fond name for your cousin is a nickname. If his name is Steven, his nickname might be Steve — or it might very well be "Stinky" or "Junior."
nimble\If you're nimble, you can move quickly and with ease. That spryness can be both physical and mental, so even if your granny isn't very nimble on her feet, she can probably still whip you in chess.
nitrogen\a common nonmetallic element that is normally a colorless odorless tasteless inert diatomic gas; constitutes 78 percent of the atmosphere by volume; a constituent of all living tissues
nocturnal\If something is nocturnal, it belongs to or is active at night. That includes vampires, owls that like to hunt by moonlight, and that roommate who stays up playing video games until the wee hours of the morning.
nomadic\A nomad is someone who lives by traveling from place to place. Nomadic thus means anything that involves moving around a lot. Nomadic hunter-gatherer tribes follow the animals they hunt, carrying tents with them.
nominate\When you suggest a person for a position in the government, or propose a theme for your school's prom, you nominate that person or idea, especially if it's done in an official way.
nominee\A nominee is someone running for office. You could be a nominee for student council or for the presidency.
nonchalant\If your friend is acting cool, unconcerned or in an indifferent manner, call him nonchalant — like when he saunters by a group of whispering, giggling girls and just nods and says, "Hey."
nonsense\Nonsense is stuff that sounds like language but doesn't have any meaning, like the phrase higgledy-piggledy-po, or fwumphy-doo. The most famous nonsense poem is Lewis Carroll's "Jabberwocky."
North Pole\the northernmost point of the Earth&#039;s axis
notate\his application
noted\Use the adjective noted to describe something that's well-known or distinguished. A noted expert on dinosaurs is famous for her study of very old fossils.
noticeable\Something that is noticeable is apparent or easy to be noticed. If the change in your report cards is noticeable, let's hope it’s because your grades went up!
notify\To notify is to officially give someone a piece of information. If your poem wins the local poetry competition, the judges will notify you that you're the winner.
notion\If you have a notion that you can swim across the ocean, you are probably wrong. A notion is an idea, often vague and sometimes fanciful.
notoriety\Notoriety is fame you get from doing something bad or being part of a misfortune or scandal. Just remember: Notoriety's not al-righty. Charles Manson earned notoriety for his grisly crimes.
notwithstanding\Notwithstanding means "in spite of something." Your boasts about having memorized the entire textbook and bribing the teacher with apples notwithstanding, you still managed to fail the final exam with flying colors.
nourish\When you nourish your imagination or your body, you give it what it needs to stay healthy and flourish (hey, that rhymes!).
novel\If something is so new and original that it's never been seen, used or even thought of before, call it novel. The noun novel describes a book-length work of fiction.
noxious\Something noxious is harmful and could be even fatal — whether it is colorless, odorless, and invisible like carbon monoxide, or dark, strong-smelling, and obvious, like black smoke from a fire. People are called noxious too when they hurt others with cruelty or mental anguish.
nucleic acid\(biochemistry) any of various macromolecules composed of nucleotide chains that are vital constituents of all living cells
nucleus\A nucleus is often called the brain, or control center, of a eukaryotic cell (that is, a cell with a nucleus).
numerous\his application
nurture\If you plant a seed, water it daily and give it lots of light, you nurture it until it is ready to be transplanted outside. When you nurture a person or thing, you care for it and help it to grow.
nutrient\A nutrient is anything that nourishes a living being. We humans get our nutrients from what we eat, plants get theirs from the soil. While the best nutrients are natural, we can also get them from vitamins in a bottle.
nutrition\Nutrition is the study of food and drink. If you take a nutrition class, you'll become more aware of the health hazards of junk food.
nuts\adjinformal or slang terms for mentally irregular
oak\An oak is a tree that typically sheds its leaves in the winter and grows acorns as fruit. If you get hit on the head with an acorn, you are probably standing under an oak.
oasis\As you walk through the desert of life, may you always find your oasis — a place where you can find safety and sustenance.
obedience\Obedience is behavior that's respectful and mindful of rules and laws. Parents, teachers, and cops all appreciate obedience.
object\When your younger brother runs around the house with scissors, you should definitely object. Perhaps a less sharp object such as a roll of paper towels would suffice.
oblige\To oblige is to do something you have to, because you're bound by either good manners or the law.
obliterate\When you see obliterate, think of evil alien invaders that zap a planet with a destructive ray. In one blast, the planet and all of the people on it are vaporized. The planet is truly obliterated, or completely wiped out.
oblivious\If you don't notice or aren't aware, it means that the adjective oblivious applies to you!
obsess\If you obsess about something, you constantly think about it, like kids who obsess about their grades so much, they get upset before every test.
obsolete\Use the adjective obsolete for something that is out of date. As the Rolling Stones song "Out of Time" goes, "You're obsolete, my baby, my poor old-fashioned baby."
obstacle\When the road is blocked ahead of you, that blockage is an obstacle that keeps you from getting where you want to go.
obstruct\When you obstruct something, you block it. If you’re gobbling down your pizza, a chunk of crust you didn’t chew so well might obstruct your airway and you'll choke.
obstruction\An obstruction blocks things, like a roadblock prevents drivers to enter a street or a piece of food cuts off your windpipe.
obstructionist\someone who systematically obstructs some action that others want to take
obtain\Obtain means to get something that is not so easy to come by such as knowledge, rights, or a large amount of money. You wouldn't say you obtained a pair of pants, unless they were one of a kind.
occasional\When something happens from time to time on an irregular basis, we say it is an occasional occurrence. For example, you might have an occasional lunch with a friend.  If your friend ever picked up the bill, maybe it would happen more often.
occupy\When you spend a lot of your free time reading tea leaves, you occupy yourself with that pastime, meaning it takes up your time and keeps you busy.
occur\Use the verb occur when an event or a thought happens, like when it occurs to you that you've left home without your umbrella. Maybe you didn't hear the forecast that showers would occur this afternoon.
occurrence\An occurrence is an instance of something or a time when something happens. If you get migraines, the doctor might ask how many occurrences of the headache you have in a month.
Oceania\a large group of islands in the south Pacific including Melanesia and Micronesia and Polynesia (and sometimes Australasia and the Malay Archipelago)
oceanic\Things that have something to do with the ocean are oceanic. Oceanic water comes from the sea, and oceanic study focuses on creatures that live in the ocean and other ocean-related topics.
oceanographer\a scientist who studies physical and biological aspects of the seas
octogenarian\Someone who's octogenarian is older than 80 and younger than 90. If your great-aunt is 84, she's an octogenarian.
octopus\An octopus is an eight-legged sea creature. Octopuses are intelligent animals, and have been shown to have great capacity for learning. (However, that doesn't stop people from grilling and eating them.)
odd\The numbers 1, 3, 5, and 35 are all odd numbers — they can't be divided by two. They are not even. Also, things that are weird or strange are called odd.
odor\An odor is anything you can smell — like a scent or an aroma. If you sniff a sour odor in your gallon of milk, you should probably pour it down the sink instead of drinking it.
odyssey\Ever since Homer’s epic poem The Odyssey told the story of warrior Odysseus’ ten-year journey home from Troy, odyssey has meant any epic journey.
offensive\Offensive describes rude or hurtful behavior, or a military or sports incursion into on opponent's territory. In any context, "on the offensive" means on the attack.
officer\An officer is someone who works for a police force or has a high position in the military. Police officers in some towns and cities patrol on bikes, or occasionally even on horseback.
offspring\Puppies are the offspring, or children, of a mamma dog. You're the offspring of your biological parents.
olfactory\Something olfactory has to do with the sense of smell. The odor from that factory is a symphony of olfactory delights. Not.
onslaught\Onslaught is a military term that refers to an attack against an enemy. It's safe to say that no one wants to be caught on the receiving end of an onslaught, because there will be lots of danger, destruction and probably death.
ooze\his application
opal\An opal is a gem, a semi-precious stone that comes in many shimmery, partly translucent colors. If your birthday is in October, an opal is your birthstone.
opaque\Use the adjective opaque either for something that doesn't allow light to pass through (like a heavy curtain) or for something difficult to understand (like bureaucratic gobbledygook).
opponent\An opponent is your competition, whether it's a rival hockey team, or the other finalist in the chess tournament. Coaches tell you to never underestimate your opponent.
opportunity\Seize the noun, opportunity, if you're talking about circumstances that allow you do to something you'd like to do. Wouldn't you love to have the opportunity to meet your favorite musician?
oppose\To oppose something is to go against it or fight hard to stop it. A senator might oppose a bill, or a teen might oppose authority.
opposite\Opposite means “other." If you’re walking to school and realize you forgot your math homework, turn around and walk in the opposite direction to go back and get it.
optical\Anything that's optical has something to do with sight. You could call your glasses an optical aid, since they help you see things more clearly.
optimal\Something that's optimal is the best or most favorable for a given situation. Flowers? Check. Chocolates? Check. Dinner reservation? Check. Sounds like you have the optimal conditions for a successful anniversary date.
optimistic\An optimistic person thinks the best possible thing will happen, and hopes for it even if it's not likely. Someone who's a tad too confident this way is also sometimes called optimistic.
oral\The word oral means having to do with the mouth or speaking. When you give an oral report in school, you stand in front of the class and talk.
orbit\To orbit is to follow a circular or elliptical path around a central body.  Usually a planet, moon or satellite is described as orbiting, but a child who has too much sugar can sometimes orbit around his parents in an annoying fashion.
orchestra\If you love classical music concerts led by a conductor, with a big sound and plenty of violins, you're an orchestra fan.
orchid\any of numerous plants of the orchid family usually having flowers of unusual shapes and beautiful colors
ore\his application
organic\If you take up organic farming, be sure to use organic fertilizer, not some artificial chemical. Organic describes things that are natural or related to nature.
orgy\If you have an orgy of presents or snacks or even new ideas, you have so many it's almost obscene. In this figurative use, orgy means an event where there is just too much of a good thing!
orientation\Orientation is all about the direction you're facing. A house can have an east-facing orientation. Freshman orientation starts you off in a good direction. Your political orientation means your political outlook.
original\When you buy a car from its original owner, you know it's only been owned by one person. Original means "the very first."
originate\Originate is a verb that means to start or create something. You can originate the idea of adding a fancy new coffee machine to your company's break room, and before long, your entire office could be happily drinking mocha lattes.
ornament\An ornament is a decoration. You can also ornament something by making it more beautiful or festive.
orphan\An orphan is someone who has lost both parents. Usually, we think of sad little children when we think of orphans, but anyone whose parents have both died is an orphan.
orphanage\An orphanage is a place where children without parents are cared for and housed.
oschlocracy\his application
osmosis\Osmosis is the scientific process of transferring fluid between molecules. When molecules move in and out of a cell to achieve the same concentration of something, like salt, on both sides, then osmosis is happening.
ostrich\fast-running African flightless bird with two-toed feet; largest living bird
outcome\The result of something, or the consequence of it, is the outcome. If your oldest child announces that your youngest child has climbed onto the roof with a handmade set of wings, you should probably not expect a good outcome. Better run!
outfit\You can use the noun outfit to mean clothes that go together, like a shirt and pants that you always wear to job interviews. You might have spent hours choosing your first-day-of-school outfit.
outgas\his application
outline\The gist, the essence, the major parts of something — that's its outline.
output\If your factory transforms steel into train wheels, your factory's output––what it produces––is train wheels. A country's output is the total quantity of goods it produces.
outrageously\advto an extravagant or immoderate degree
outright\If you do something outright, you do it in a wholehearted, unrestricted way. If you declare outright that you’re never eating another cupcake, that’s the end of that. If you eat one anyway, you told an outright lie.
outshine\vattract more attention and praise than others
outspoken\If you often freely speak your mind, people may say that you are outspoken. How people view that particular trait in you, however, will depend on whether they agree with what you have to say or not!
outstanding\Something outstanding stands out for good reasons. Your outstanding presentation captured everyone's attention; unfortunately, so did the tear in the seat of your pants.
oven\An oven is a device for baking food using heat. You probably scramble eggs on your stove but bake cupcakes in your oven.
overall\The overall meaning of the word overall is that it covers all the parts of something. For example, the individual parts don't matter as much as the overall value.
overcome\Use the verb overcome when you talk about someone who has triumphed over adversity. It's great to see a friend who's always struggled in school overcome his learning disabilities and make the honor roll.
overhaul\his application
overlap\When things overlap, part or all of one thing covers part or all of the other, like roofing shingles or flat noodles in a lasagna dish.
overlook\To overlook something is to fail to see it. When planning a party, it's best to write out a to-do list so that you don't overlook any details.
overpass\bridge formed by the upper level of a crossing of two highways at different levels
overseas\There's no trick to the meaning of overseas. If someone goes overseas, they've gone "over" the "seas" — to a foreign country.
oversee\vwatch and direct
overwhelm\Overwhelm means “give a person too much of something.” If your friend agrees to feed your pet fish while you’re on vacation, don’t overwhelm her with requests by also asking her to do your laundry and wash the dishes.
owl\While most birds are known for their tweeting, owls are known for their hooting. If you hear a "hoot" in the woods, look for an owl (But bring your flashlight; owls are nocturnal.).
oxide\any compound of oxygen with another element or a radical
oyster\An oyster is an animal that lives in the sea, a rough-shelled mollusk. To find a pearl inside an oyster, you first have to find a "pearl oyster" — a rare cousin of the oysters people commonly eat.
ozone\Ozone is a colorless toxic gas formed from oxygen by an electrical discharge. It’s that stuff in the sky that comes between you and the sun.
pack\A pack is a container of something, especially one made of sturdy paper. You might run to the store for a pack of batteries for your new clock and a pack of crayons for your new coloring book.
packed\Anything that's packed is either tightly compressed or extremely crowded, like the packed auditorium during your school's annual talent show.
paddle\If you regularly ride around in a canoe, you’re undoubtedly already familiar with a paddle, a pole with a broad, flat end that is used to propel a boat forward.
painstaking\If you notice that painstaking is composed of pains and taking, you already have a pretty clear sense of what this adjective means: to be painstaking is to be so careful, so meticulous, so thorough, that it hurts.
palace\A palace is a beautiful, large house where someone important, like a king, lives.
palatable\Something that is palatable is acceptable to one’s sense of taste—literally or figuratively. If it's palatable, then you can put up with it — whether it's leftovers or a mediocre made-for-TV movie.
palate\his application
pale\After a long summer in the pool and the bright sun, your favorite rainbow-colored beach swimsuit will probably end up pale and faded. Pale means "having little color."
palisade\A palisade is a heavy-duty fence that's strong enough to keep out intruders, like one you might see around a military camp.
pamphlet\A pamphlet is a little booklet with a soft (usually paper) cover that briefly addresses a particular subject of interest.
pancreas\The pancreas is part of the digestive system. It helps the stomach digest food. It’s a large, long gland that secretes insulin and digestive enzymes.
panel\If you are participating in some kind of contest, it is not ethical to bribe the judges on the panel with brownies. On the other hand, don’t stick your tongue out at them either, since they’ll be determining the winner.
panic\To panic is to become filled with fear and anxiety. Someone in a panic is totally freaking out.
pants\In the UK, pants are women's undergarments. You might also call pants "knickers" or "underwear."
pantyhose\Pantyhose are sheer tights, a garment that snugly covers your legs. It was once very common for certain jobs to require women to wear pantyhose.
parallel\In math, parallel means two lines that never intersect — think of an equal sign. Figuratively, parallel means similar, or happening at the same time. A story might describe the parallel lives of three close friends.
paralyze\Use the verb paralyze to describe something that makes it impossible to move or function, like a snowstorm that threatens to paralyze a city.
parameter\A parameter is a limit. In mathematics a parameter is a constant in an equation, but parameter isn’t just for math anymore: now any system can have parameters that define its operation. You can set parameters for your class debate.
paramount\To the President, protecting our nation's security is of paramount importance — it's at the very top of his to-do list.
paranoia\Something that happens to a person's thinking can lead to paranoia. You may believe that your friends no longer like you, but it's just that your paranoia makes you suspicious of everyone.
paraphrase\The verb paraphrase means to sum something up or clarify a statement by rephrasing it. So to paraphrase that explanation, it means to say something in other, simpler words.
parasite\A creature that lives off another organism is a parasite. The parasite might not hurt the host, but it doesn't do anything to help it, either.
parley\A formal discussion between enemies or opponents is called a parley. A British drummer called for a parley between the British and American armies in 1781, and officers from both sides then discussed the terms of Britain's surrender.
parliament\In some countries — Great Britain for example — the group of people who make the laws is called the parliament. It's the equivalent of Congress in the United States.
parsimonious\A parsimonious person is unwilling to spend a lot of money. You know those people who count up every penny when it's time to split a restaurant bill? You can call them parsimonious. Or cheap.
partial eclipse\an eclipse in which the eclipsed body is only partially obscured
partial\If you describe something as partial, you're usually saying it's just part of the whole, or incomplete.  Say someone asks how you started your band and you say, "I bought a guitar." That would be a partial answer, at best.
participate\If you take part in an activity or organization, you participate in it. For example, you participate in a conversation by listening to and talking with others, or you participate in a sport by joining a team and taking part in practices and games.
particle\A particle is a small piece of anything. Particle can also refer to a subatomic particle with mass and structure, but takes up hardly any space at all.
particular\As an adjective, particular describes something specific, such as when you prefer one particular type of cereal over another. The noun form means specific points or details, as in the particulars of a police investigation.
passage\his application
passion\Passion is a strong emotion, usually related to love or anger. If on your first time out together your date falls on their knees and tells you they'd die for you — they're gripped by passion (or maybe just nuts).
passive\Passive is the opposite of active. In English class, you might be advised to avoid the passive voice. In chemistry, a passive substance doesn't react. Passive resistance is a way to protest peacefully.
past\Past events have already happened — if it happened an Ice Age ago, a century ago, or even a minute ago, it's in the past.
paste\Paste is like glue. If you paste something, you stick it onto something else. You might copy and paste info from one document to another on your computer, or literally paste posters all over town. Just don’t use tomato paste.
pasture\his application
patch\When you patch something, you repair it, like when you patch a hole in the knee of your favorite jeans or when road crews use asphalt to patch a pothole in the street.
patent\A patent is a government document that proves that an invention is yours and yours alone. In the U.S., as of 2009, over 7,000,000 patents were issued by the Patent and Trademark Office.
path\A path is a route that's meant for walking. You might follow a path up a mountain as you hike, or follow a winding path throughout your life.
pathology\Pathology is the medical term for the way a disease works. A tumor is removed by a doctor trained in surgery, but you need a doctor trained in pathology to tell you if the tumor is cancer.
patriot\A patriot is someone who loves and who has sometimes fought for his or her country. “Nathan Hale was a true patriot; his only regret was that he had but one life to give for his country.”
patrol\When a person or a group monitors a specific area, that's a patrol. A police officer's night patrol might involve walking a beat on certain city streets.
patron\A patron supports someone or something. A patron of a business supports the business by being a loyal customer. A patron of the arts helps support starving artists — financially, not with food rations.
patronage\If you give a store or business your support (financial or otherwise) as a customer or client, you are giving them your patronage. Great philanthropists are often known for their patronage, or financial support, of the arts.
patronizing\If you are patronizing, you tend to speak down to others, acting as though you are smarter, classier, or just plain better than anyone else. For the record, your snobby attitude is not impressing anyone.
pattern\Something that repeats in a predictable way is a pattern. You might find a pattern in a series of numbers, in the material covering your couch, or in the habits of your upstairs neighbor.
pave\To pave is to coat or cover with a very hard material, like concrete, asphalt, or stone. It's easier to shovel snow from your driveway after you pave it.
peak\Use the word peak to refer to the pointy top of something, such as the jagged peak of a tall mountain or the tapered peak that forms when you beat egg whites for a recipe.
pebble\Pebbles are the small, round stones you might find on a beach. If you want a pet rock, a smooth pebble would be a good choice.
peculiar\Something peculiar is notably unusual. If your friend starts saying strange things you don't understand, ask her why she's suddenly become peculiar.
pedagogic\adjof or relating to pedagogy
pedagogy\Pedagogy is another word for education, the profession and science of teaching.
pen-friend\a person you come to know by frequent friendly correspondence
pendant\If you’re wearing a necklace with a large gold heart on a delicate chain, then you have a pendant, an ornament that hangs on a chain.
penetrate\To penetrate is to force into or pierce through. If the fog is thick as pea soup, your flashlight won’t penetrate it. If you stubbornly ignore good advice, people might say nothing can penetrate that thick skull of yours.
penicillin\If you have an ear infection, your doctor may give you penicillin. It's a common kind of antibiotic medicine.
perceive\When we perceive something, we become aware of or notice it. Sometimes we perceive things by using our senses of sight, hearing, and smell.
perceptive\If someone calls you perceptive, they mean you are good at understanding things or figuring things out. Perceptive people are insightful, intelligent, and able to see what others cannot.
percussion\Percussion is music involving drums and other instruments such as gongs, bells, cymbals, rattles, and tambourines. The instruments themselves are also called percussion.
perfect\Something that is perfect is complete and without defect or blemish. It might also be precisely accurate or exact.
perform\To perform most often means to sing, dance act or put on any kind of show. Perform also means, however, to carry out almost any function or action — to do something, in other words.
performance\Performance has to do with doing something: a concert or play is a performance, and if you want to talk about how well the actors did, you'd rate their performance.
perfume\That delicious mid-summer smell in the middle of a rose garden? You can call that its perfume.
perfunctorily\To do something perfunctorily is to do it because you have to, as a formality, often in a careless way.
periodic\his application
peripatetic\If you're reading this on a treadmill or while taking a walk, you may know about the peripatetic, or walking, philosopher Aristotle, who taught while strolling with his students. Or, maybe you just like being a peripatetic, a walking wanderer.
peripheral\Scanners, printers, and speakers are peripheral devices for a computer because they aren't central to the working of the computer itself. Anything peripheral is on the margin, or outside, while main things, like a computer's processor, are not peripheral.
perish\his application
perishable\Something perishable is likely to die or decay. A perishable is also a type of food with a limited shelf life if it's not refrigerated.
permanent\Something that’s permanent is constant and lasting, as opposed to temporary. Think twice about writing in permanent marker or getting a tattoo — both are just about impossible to erase.
permeable\Something that is permeable can be passed through, especially by liquids or gases. "I wish I hadn't worn my permeable sweater to the picnic when the weatherman called for thunderstorms. The rain seeped right through the fabric, soaking me to the skin."
permeate\When you live in a big city like New York, you know all too well how the smells of spices and cooking meats can permeate a hallway, easily passing through those thin apartment doors to make your mouth water.
permit\Permit means to allow. When you permit your brother to come into your room, you let him in. (You can always kick him back out if he messes with your stuff.)
perpetuate\Some things should last forever and others should not be perpetuated at all. Things that should NOT be perpetuated? Ugly rumors, arms races, and your Aunt Martha's annual fruit cake.
perplexing\The adjective perplexing describes something it is confusing. Before you're fluent in Arabic, you may find the unfamiliar alphabet to be totally perplexing.
persiflage\Persiflage is a teasing kind of banter. After a softball batter strikes out, she can expect to hear some persiflage from her teammates in the dugout.
persist\When someone persists they keep going or hang on. If you want finish a marathon, you have to persist and keep running, no matter how many blisters you have.
personal\When something's personal, it's all about you. A personal decision is one you make on your own and it’s probably about something that concerns you, too. Your personal possessions are things that belong to you.
personality\Your personality is what makes you "you" — the combination of characteristics that make you unique.
personnel\Personnel is a noun describing a group of people who follow orders, usually at a company. If you have a job, you’re probably considered personnel to be managed.
perspective\Your perspective is the way you see something. If you think that toys corrupt children's minds, then from your perspective a toy shop is an evil place.
persuasive\If you are persuasive, then you have a knack for getting people to do things. Your most persuasive friend might be able to talk you into riding in a hot air balloon despite your fear of heights.
pertain\his application
pertinent\Something pertinent is relevant and on-point. If you give your best friend pertinent advice, that means the advice is appropriate for the situation.
pervasive\When something is pervasive, it's everywhere. Common things are pervasive — like greed and cheap perfume.
pesticide\A pesticide is a bug-killing poison. You may have to resort to using a pesticide to battle the ants that have invaded your kitchen, even if you hate killing any creature.
petroleum\his application
pettish\If you stomp your foot angrily when the bakery is out of your favorite cupcake flavor, you're acting pettish, or like a little kid who's in a cranky mood.
pharmacy\A pharmacy is where you go when you need to fill a prescription for medicine. Hospitals have pharmacies, but you can also find retail pharmacies in most cities and towns.
phase\A phase is a particular period of time, like someone whose "teenage rebellion" phase lasts well into her thirties.
phenomenon\his application
philosophy\The noun philosophy means the study of proper behavior, and the search for wisdom.
photocopier\a copier that uses photographic methods of making copies
photodissociation\his application
photography\Photography is the art or process of taking pictures using a camera. If you're very interested in photography, you might want to learn how to develop your own film in a darkroom. You should also practice yelling "Say cheese!"
photosynthesis\his application
physical\his application
physician\A physician is a doctor. If you wake up and your eyes are red, your skin is yellow, and your tongue is swollen, find a physician, soon!
physiology\Physiology is the branch of biology that deals with the functions and processes of living organisms, both animals and plants. It's biology in motion.
pictorial\If something's pictorial, it has illustrations or photographs. A graphic novel is a pictorial way to tell a story.
pierce\If something pokes your hand, you will probably look at your hand to see if it pierced the skin. To pierce means to go right through, especially with something sharp.
pigeon\The birds you're most likely to see while strolling around a city are pigeons. In the wild, they typically eat grains and seeds, but in New York City, you might see them eating discarded popcorn, French fries — just about anything dropped by careless pedestrians.
pigment\Something's color is its pigment. Technically, all living things have a natural pigment — leaves have a green pigment for example — but the word is more generally applied to human skin color.
pilot\A pilot leads the way. An aircraft pilot flies a plane, and a maritime pilot steers a ship. Also, to pilot is to guide to safety, like to navigate a ship out of a harbor or through a sea of zombies.
pine\his application
pink\Anything pink is colored a shade that's a combination of red and white. Young girls are traditionally dolled up in pink outfits, until they eventually rebel and refuse to wear pink as tweens.
pinpoint\To pinpoint something is to nail down its exact location.
pioneer\A pioneer is one of the first settlers in a new place. If you desperately want to experience life in space, maybe you will be one of the pioneers who live in the first moon settlement.
pipe\A pipe is a hollow tube that liquid flows through. When your kitchen pipes get clogged, call a plumber. A pipe is also something to put tobacco in and smoke. Old pictures of Santa show him smoking a pipe.
pipeline\A pipeline is a series of pipes that liquid or gas flows through. A pipeline can also be a channel for other things, even ideas. The Internet is an information pipeline. No digging required!
piracy\Piracy is a what pirates do: they steal stuff. If you plagiarize by stealing someone's words or ideas that’s piracy. Argh!
pit\A pit is a hole in the ground, like the one in Poe’s “The Pit and the Pendulum” that the narrator tries not to fall into. A pit can also be smaller indentation. There’s also a pit hiding inside a peach.
pitch\In baseball, the ball is pitched (thrown). Elsewhere, writers, salesmen, and other folks make pitches (proposals).
pivotal\High school graduation is a pivotal moment in most people's lives — an important point that signifies a shift in direction.
placebo\A patient's symptoms sometimes disappear just because they believe that they are being treated. Even when doctors give them a biologically inactive drug, otherwise known as a placebo, the patients swear they are cured.
plain\Plain things are simple, unadorned, and even a little boring. Being a plain talker means you don't use pretentious, fancy words. But having a plain face means you're not much to look at.
plainly\To do something plainly means to do it either in a very simple way or in an obvious way.  You might dress plainly when you're just hanging around the house, but your flair for fashion will be plainly visible when you get dressed up for a party.
planet\A planet is a celestial body that revolves around a star. In our solar system, Earth is the third planet from the sun.
plank\A plank is a board or another rectangular piece of wood. When you're building your four-story treehouse, you'll need a lot of planks.
plankton\If you set your pet goldfish free in a lake, he might dine on plankton instead of the food you sprinkle in his tank every day. Or, more likely, he might be dinner for a bigger fish.
plasma\Plasma is the colorless liquid part of blood. Plasma holds blood cells but is not made from them.
plaster\Plaster is a building material that's applied as a wet paste and dries very hard and smooth. The walls inside your house might be made of plaster.
plate\A plate is a flat dish meant for serving one person's portion of food. It would make perfect sense to eat spaghetti from a plate, but you probably shouldn't use a plate for your soup.
plateau\A plateau is a high, flat area of land. The word has also been stretched to include a leveling off of progress. At first the children at the sleepover were running wild, but then their energy level reached a plateau.
platitude\If an executive gives a speech that begins, "This business is all about survival of the fittest. You need to burn the midnight oil and take one for the team," his employees might get sick of listening to these meaningless clichés and tell him to cut the platitudes.
platitudinous\adjdull and tiresome but with pretensions of significance or originality
plausible\If something is plausible, it's reasonable or believable. Things that are plausible could easily happen. A woman becoming President is very plausible. A giraffe becoming President is not.
playground\A playground is a place to frolic and play. Most kids know where the nearest playground is because that’s where the swings and slides are. Neighborhoods and  schools usually have a playground. Weeeeee!
playwright\A playwright is someone who writes plays. Playwrights are also known as dramatists.
plaza\A plaza is an urban park or square, or another public space where people can walk, sit, and congregate. You might, for example, tell your friend to meet you in the plaza downtown with the big horse statue.
pliable\Pliable means bendable but not breakable. Wax is pliable, good leather is pliable.  If you describe a person as pliable, it usually means that he's easily influenced, like a nightclub owner who takes orders from a crime boss.
pliant\The adjective pliant describes something that is capable of being bent. "The teenager showed off her pliant spine every time she draped herself over a piece of furniture. Why hanging upside down off the sofa didn't give her a headache, her mother would never know."
plight\A plight is a situation that's hard to get out of. Learning about the plight of people trying to rebuild their homes after a devastating earthquake might inspire you to send money to a charity.
plod\When you plod, you walk slowly, heavily, and deliberately. You might need to plod through the snow to get to the bus stop on time.
plot\A plot is a scheme, a story, a map charting progress, or a piece of land (as for a garden). To plot is to devise the secret plan, order the events of the story, or track your movement on the map.
plow\A plow is a large tool used for farming. A farmer drives or pulls a plow across a field to prepare it for planting.
plump\Something that's plump has a nice round shape. You could describe watching your plump little cousin eating one plump grape after another.
plunge\Plunge is a noun and a verb related to diving, falling, and sinking. A "polar bear plunge" is when people plunge into freezing cold water for charity or, inexplicably, for fun.
poach\When people poach deer or ducks, they hunt them illegally. On the other hand, when you poach an egg, it's perfectly legal — you just cook it in simmering water.
pointed\Pointed things have a sharp end, like a cat's pointed teeth or the pointed tip of your #2 pencil . A pointed comment, on the other hand, is deliberately direct.
pointless\If something's pointless, it has no use or makes no sense. Telling yourself that it's pointless to be nervous every time you fly on a plane probably won't solve your fear of flying.
poison\Poison is a substance that can harm or even kill you. Arsenic and cyanide are both types of poison—so stay away from them! Mean people can also be poison, so stay away from them too.
polar\The idea of polar suggests equal opposites. For example, the North and South Poles are at opposite ends of the planet, and both are equally glacial, or very cold, which, by the way,  is another meaning of polar.
pole\A pole is a rounded stick or rod, usually made of wood, plastic, or metal. You need a pole for hanging a flag, catching fish, or setting up a tent.
policy\Did you just come up with a plan for reducing the number of paper clips your department uses at work each month? Then you’ve created a policy, a plan of action.
polish\When you polish something, you rub and buff it until it shines. You might need to polish your reading glasses from time to time.
politics\Your friend who's obsessed with watching Congressional debates and listening to experts discuss the bills being voted on in the Senate has a keen interest in politics, or the details of governing or managing a state or a country.
pollen\Pollen is the grainy stuff inside a flowering plant that makes it possible for the plant to reproduce. Insects, birds, people, and the wind help to spread pollen between plants.
pollinate\To pollinate is to move the pollen from one plant to another. When a bee, for example, pollinates a flower, it helps the plant reproduce. You know what they say about the birds and the bees...
pollutant\Any substance that makes the environment dirty or contaminated is a pollutant. Soot is an example of an air pollutant, and chemical pollutants can make their way into the water supply.
polygon\A polygon is a closed shape with straight sides. Rectangles, triangles, hexagons, and octagons are all examples of polygons.
pompous\A pompous person is arrogant or conceited. He'll walk into a party with an inflated ego, ready to tell anyone who will listen that "I'm kind of a big deal."
ponderous\When you call Frankenstein ponderous, it's not because he likes to ponder the great questions of life. It's because he moves like a Mack truck, only slower and less gracefully.
poor\Poor describes having little of something. If you lack needed food and shelter, you're poor, and if you fall below a standard or don't even try, you're giving a poor performance. Empty pockets and empty efforts both mean poor.
populace\The populace is a way to refer to a group of people in general, like the masses or a population.
popular\his application
populate\When people live in or occupy a country, city, or town, they populate it. It doesn’t always refer to people — bugs might populate your kitchen if you leave half-eaten food out.
pore\That trickle of sweat didn't just miraculously appear — it was secreted out of a pore, a really tiny opening on the surface of your skin.
porous\If something is full of tiny holes or openings, you can describe it as porous. A sponge is porous, and if the border between countries is open for anyone to cross easily, it too can be called porous.
portable\If something's portable, you can easily take it with you . You may carry your portable computer with you from class to class because it's small, light, and fits easily in your backpack.
Porte\the Ottoman court in Constantinople
portion\If a friend asks you to invest in her new start-up in exchange for a portion, or part, of the company’s profits, consider the agreement carefully. Remember, a portion of zero is still zero.
portrait\his application
portray\When you paint a picture of someone, either in words or in paint, you portray them. Actors portray characters too.
pose\To pose is to assume a particular stance. Like a runway model strutting to the end of the catwalk, posing with her hands on her hips, and then gracefully walking back.
posit\To posit something is to assume or suggest that it is true. You can posit an idea or opinion.
position\his application
positive\In the simplest sense, positive means good — or the opposite of negative. If you have a positive attitude about homework, for example, you're more likely to get positive feedback on your report card.
possess\To possess something is to have or own it. You can possess a physical object, you can possess a particular quality or skill, or you can possess control or influence over someone.
poster\his application
postpone\his application
postulate\Assume something or present it as a fact and you postulate it. Physicists postulate the existence of parallel universes, which is a little mind-blowing.
potassium\a light soft silver-white metallic element of the alkali metal group; oxidizes rapidly in air and reacts violently with water; is abundant in nature in combined forms occurring in sea water and in carnallite and kainite and sylvite
potential\If you can describe something as possible but not yet actual, choose the adjective potential. Companies try to reach potential customers through advertising.
potshot\Shooting a gun at a very easy target without warning is taking a potshot. And if you meanly and randomly criticize someone, that's another kind of potshot.
potter\his application
pound\his application
poverty\Families who live in poverty have a hard time getting enough food to eat. "The loss of jobs in the area led to increased poverty." "The poverty rate is the percent of people who live in poverty in a geographic area."
powder\Powder is a loose substance made up of extremely tiny, dry, solid grains. Think of the baking powder and cocoa powder you use when you make your famous chocolate layer cake.
practical\A stapler is a practical object — it has a use. A hand-crocheted stapler cozy designed to keep a stapler warm at night? Not practical at all.
practically\Practically means nearly, like being practically broke if you have three dollars left in the whole world. It also means done in a practical way – if you wear sneakers on a long walk, you’re dressed practically.
prairie\A prairie is a plain of grassy land without many trees. If you're raising cattle, find some prairie land to let them roam around on.
prate\To prate means to talk on and on about something. While it may be interesting to hear about other people’s vacations, when they prate about them until the wee hours, it becomes intolerable.
precede\To precede is to come before. A short speech will precede the dinner. As you walk down the garden path, the bed of roses precedes the holly bush. When marching into the room, the younger kids precede the older ones.
precious\To call something precious is to describe it as highly valued. Think of a gemstone when you call your baby sister precious.
precipitate\Precipitate usually means "bringing something on" or "making it happen" — and not always in a good way. An unpopular verdict might "precipitate violence" or one false step at the Grand Canyon could precipitate you down into the gorge.
precise\Precise means strictly correct or very exact. If you need something to be precise, like the positioning of a safety net for a stunt jump over a canyon, there's no room for error.
precursor\You've heard the old saying "Pride comes before the fall?" Well, you could just as easily say pride is a precursor to the fall. A precursor is something that happens before something else.
predator\A predator is an animal that eats other animals — or people or companies who act like they do. Lions are predators, but so are pickpockets and some giant corporations.
predecessor\A predecessor is something that came before the current version. The person you replaced at work is your predecessor, just like Pac Man is the predecessor of modern video games.
predestination\If you think everything happens for a reason and we have no control over our own futures, then you believe in predestination.
predict\To predict is to say what you think is going to happen in the future.  If you predict that you'll win the poker championship, you're either really confident in your poker skills or you're cheating.
predilection\A predilection is a preference for or bias toward something. If you have a predilection for wool clothing, you should take up knitting.
predisposition\A predisposition is a tendency to do something. If you know you have a predisposition toward getting carsick, better to plan ahead and avoid eating before a long drive.  Things could get ugly.
predominant\If you’re talking about the most popular or common thing, call it predominant. If the predominant feeling in a neighborhood is that pizza is the best food, the result might be pizzerias being the predominant type of restaurant there.
predominantly\When the weather forecast says the day will be predominantly sunny, that means it will be mostly sunny.
predominate\Of all the social networks, one predominates. Facebook is by far the biggest and most influential. When someone or something predominates, it's the largest or most powerful of all.
preferable\When one thing seems like a better option than another, it is preferable. If you would rather have chocolate ice cream than vanilla, it means that chocolate is preferable to you.
preference\If you have a strong liking for something, you have a preference for it. You might have a preference for apples, but there are some days when you're stuck eating a banana instead.
prehistoric\If while hiking, you see strange painting on a cliff, it may be rock art from prehistoric times, meaning something from the time before history was recorded.
preliminary\Preliminary means something that comes before something else. If you want to run in the race, you have to place in the top third of the preliminary round. It can also mean "early" — the preliminary results are in, and you've won!
preponderance\If there's a preponderance of something, there is A LOT of it. If you are a prosecutor, you are looking for a preponderance of evidence to convince the jury that the defendant is guilty.
prepossessing\adjcreating a favorable impression
prerequisite\A prerequisite is a required prior condition. If something is required in advance of something else, like if you have to take a beginning Spanish class before signing up for Spanish II, then it’s a prerequisite.
prescribe\To prescribe is make orders or give directions for something to be done. These days, the word is mainly used by doctors who prescribe medications to take.
prescribed\adjset down as a rule or guide
prescription\A prescription is an order written by a doctor for someone to get a drug that is not available without this permission. If you get a bad ear infection, you'll need a prescription for antibiotics.
preserve\When you preserve something, you maintain its condition, like trying to preserve your good health by exercising regularly and eating right.
presidency\A presidency is the executive office of a country, state, company, or other large organization. It's also the way to refer to the whole length of time a president is president: "Washington's presidency ended after two terms."
president\The president is the person officially in charge — whether it’s of a republic, a company, a college, or a fan club.
press\To press something is to push it, like if you press an elevator button or press your friend to tell you a secret. If you get that secret, don’t leak it to the press, which is another word for news media.
pressure\his application
prestige\People, cars, schools, clubs, banks––all can be said to have prestige. Star in a blockbuster movie? Your prestige level just shot up. Get caught shoplifting? A prestige killer.
prestigious\Eagle Scout is a prestigious position within the Boy Scouts.  It requires a lot of hard work over a number of years, and if you become one, lots of people will respect you.
pretension\Pretension is what you're guilty of when you boorishly try to impress other people with how important or clever you are.
pretentious\Use the adjective pretentious as a way to criticize people who try to act like they are more important or knowledgeable than they really are.
prevail\Prevail means to successfully persuade someone of something. If you were a Presidential advisor and you convinced him to make a National Day of Pet Appreciation, then you prevailed upon him to recognize pets.
prevailing\Something that is prevalent or most common can be described as prevailing. The prevailing opinion in your family might be that your cousin Bob who sleeps in his closet is certifiably insane.
prevalent\Something prevalent is common in a particular place at a particular time. Prevalent things are hard to avoid. When you see the word prevalent, think "It's everywhere!"
previous\his application
prey\Prey is an animal hunted for food. If you're a delicious-looking deer during hunting season, watch your back! You're the prey for all those guys in orange jackets carrying rifles.
prickly\Prickly things are sharp and spiky, while prickly people are quick to be offended or irritated. Ouch!
primal\The adjective primal describes something that's essential or basic, like the primal urge to protect yourself and your family from harm.
primary\Primary means basically "first." When you vote in a primary, that is the first election in a series. When a matter is of primary concern, it means it's of first importance. Primary school is the first you go to (after nursery school, at least).
primate\A primate is a monkey, ape, human, or other similar mammal. You've probably visited the primate house at the zoo.
prime\If something is in its prime, it is at its best. The same goes for a person. If you are young and healthy and in the prime of your life, you are ready to take on the world.
primitive life\his application
primitive\When we talk about "primitive man", we're usually talking about cavemen and other people who existed before the advent of table manners, but if your uncle speaks grunts and chews with his mouth open, you could describe him as primitive too.
principal\For an adjective that points to the main or most important thing, your best choice is principal. Is your principal goal for the summer to have fun or to earn some extra money?
principle\A principle is a kind of rule, belief, or idea that guides you. You can also say a good, ethical person has a lot of principles.
prior\Generally you should eat dinner prior to brushing your teeth. Use the adjective prior for things that exist earlier in time or that happen first in time or order.
priority\When a group or a person cares about one thing over all others, that’s the top priority. “After the flood, finding a place to live became their first priority.”
privilege\A privilege is a special advantage not enjoyed by everyone. If you're very snooty, you probably don't allow just anyone the privilege of being your friend.
prize\A prize is the reward or recognition a winner gets. When you win first prize in your state spelling bee, you might get a medal and a trip to the national competition in Washington, DC.
probe\If you probe something, you investigate it thoroughly.  If you go into business with someone, you might probe her finances to make sure that she has a good track record.
problem\If you are facing something that will be difficult to handle, you have a problem on your hands. A problem is a roadblock in a situation, something that sets up a conflict and forces you to find a resolution.
problematic\Something problematic poses a problem or causes difficulties. Your ambitions to become the next great leader of Spain are great, but your inability to speak Spanish might prove problematic.
procedure\A procedure is a tried and true process or method used to accomplish a particular task. Using sharp metal picks, dentists scrape the plaque from their patients’ teeth. While effective, it’s a procedure most people despise.
proceed\To proceed means to go or continue forward. But somehow "ready, set, proceed!" doesn't quite have the same ring to it.
process\A process is a procedure, something you do in order to achieve a certain result. Some people try to carefully follow all the steps in a process. Other people just wing it.
proclaim\"I proclaim the Olympic Games open." Every two years with words similar to these, the Olympic games officially begin. To proclaim is to exclaim or declare.
prodigious\Something exceptional, substantial, or great is prodigious. A blizzard includes prodigious wind and snow. A prodigious writer is one who can write a lot and do it well.
production\Production is the process of goods being made or manufactured. If people like the cupcakes you sell about school events, you might have to increase production by baking in both your kitchen and your neighbor's.
productivity\Use the noun productivity to describe how much you can get done. Your boss at work probably keeps track of your productivity — meaning he’s checking to see how much work you do and how well you do it.
profession\An open declaration of an opinion or belief is a profession. If you announce that you believe the earth is flat, your profession of this opinion might cause some giggling among your well-educated friends.
professional\When an athlete "goes pro," she goes professional–-she is paid for her service rather than doing it on an amateur basis. Other professionals, including doctors and lawyers, are also paid for their work, which, we hope, they conduct in a professional manner.
proficient\When someone has become good at something, they are proficient. After all those hours playing video games, you must be very proficient at them.
profound\his application
progressive\People who are progressive favor reform and civil liberties: this is the opposite of conservative, and means something close to liberal.
prohibitively\advto a prohibitive degree
project\A project is a piece of work that is planned or intended. Plan a little extra time for your gingerbread house project — gluing the walls and roof can take a while.
prolific\Someone or something that is prolific is fruitful or highly productive. A prolific songwriter can churn out five hit tunes before breakfast.
prolonged\Something prolonged is long and drawn-out — it's taking longer than it should. A prolonged wait is usually annoying.
prominent\If you're looking for an adjective that means "sticking out above the rest; famous," consider prominent. A prominent person might be the big cheese, the head honcho, the top dog — not just any Joe Schmo.
promise\A promise is an agreement to do or not do something. Also, when you have potential, you show promise.
promising\Promising things are encouraging or hopeful — they give you every sign that they'll be successful in the future. A promising early spring hints that the rest of the season will be warm and full of flowers.
promissory note\A promissory note is a legal document in which a person or institution promises to pay a debt. You could call a promissory note an official I.O.U.
promote\If you work for a marketing firm, your job is to promote new products — to publicize them and to try to get the public to buy them.
prompt\If you're prompt, you're on time. Go ahead and be prompt to class. Also, to prompt is to inspire or make happen. Getting in trouble for being late should prompt you to get a better alarm clock.
pronounced\You can't miss something that's pronounced, because it's totally obvious. If you sprain your ankle playing soccer, you might walk with a pronounced limp for a few days.
proof\Proof is the evidence that shows something is true or valid. When you show the logical steps that take you from your hypothesis that the world is round to the conclusion that it is, you're formulating a proof.
proofread\his application
propel\To propel is to push or drive forward, like a sheep dog nipping at the heels of his flock to keep them moving.
propensity\A propensity is a natural tendency to behave in a certain way. We all have propensities — things we tend to do. Dogs have a propensity to bark, and many people have a propensity for getting annoyed by it.
proper\Something proper is correct or right. There's a proper fork to use for salad, and a proper way to dress for a wedding.
property\What you own or have, like a car or clothes, is your property. The qualities that a thing has are its properties. Aloe is a plant with medicinal properties — it soothes burns.
proponent\Proponent means someone who is in favor of something. You might be a proponent of longer vacations, but your parents are proponents of a longer school year.
proportion\Proportion is about balance and how things fit together harmoniously. For example "That hound dog's tiny legs look out of proportion to that big fat body."
propose\The verb propose means "to suggest a plan," like the most well-known thing to propose: marriage. If you propose to your girlfriend, you propose getting married, and you probably give her a ring, too.
proprietor\Someone who owns a business or a property is a proprietor.  A bookstore proprietor might wish she became a librarian instead so the books would come back.
propulsion\The act of moving something forward is called propulsion. Propulsion is the force that pushes a rocket into space, that sends a football spiraling toward a receiver's hands, and that moves a strongly kicking swimmer through the water.
prose\his application
prospect\A prospect is the possibility that something fabulous will happen. After you graduate top of your class at Harvard, for example, your job prospects look great.
prosper\As any fan of Star Trek knows, “live long and prosper” is good advice. The verb prosper means to do well, succeed, or thrive.
prosperity\Use prosperity to refer to the state of being successful. In the US, the decades following World War II were characterized by rising prosperity, with large numbers moving into the middle class.
prosperous\If you have a new car, a new high-paying job, and some flashy new shoes, then you could be described as prosperous, meaning you have material success that seems like it will continue to grow.
prostitution\offering sexual intercourse for pay
protect\Whether it’s your reputation or your jewelry, when you protect something you keep it safe from anything that might threaten or harm it.
protein\Protein makes up your nails, your hair, and the egg on your plate. This nitrogenous substance we call protein consists of chains of amino acids and is necessary for life functions.
protest\A protest is a formal declaration of objection. If students at your school are fed up with the overly restrictive dress code, they might stage a protest. Washington, D.C. is often the site of political protests.
prototype\A prototype is the original model, a sample on which to base future designs. A company designing a new toaster will first design and build a prototype and then test it out and see if it's any good.
provender\Provender is food that might not be fancy but it keeps you from going hungry, like the long-time provender of college students: rice, pasta, peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and the occasional discount pizza.
provision\A provision is a store or supply of something, like food or clothing. This noun can also describe the planning you do for "when something happens."
prudent\Describe an action as prudent if it is the wise thing to do under the existing circumstances. If you're getting in trouble, it is probably prudent to keep your mouth closed and just listen.
psychiatry\If you study psychiatry, you're studying a branch of medicine helps people with mental, emotional, and behavioral disorders. With the correct diagnosis and treatment, psychiatry can help people with mental disorders live healthy and productive lives.
psychoanalysis\his application
psychology\Psychology refers to the study of human behavior and the human mind, or the mental attitude of a group. Your parents will find it hard to understand the psychology of the teenager.
publication\A publication is something made to communicate with the public. Publications are usually printed on paper (like magazines and books), but online publications are delivered via the Internet.
publicize\his application
puddle\A puddle is a small pool, such as one that forms on a sidewalk after a rain shower. A little boy with new rain boots might decide to jump in every puddle he sees on his way to school.
pueblo\If your home is in a pueblo, you probably live in the southwestern part of the United States, in a community of adobe houses.
pulp\Pulp is a soft, squishy, or slightly wet mush. The soft inside part of your tooth is pulp, and the soft flesh of a peach is also pulp.
pulse\The word pulse has many shades of meaning, but most of them involve something characterized by short, rhythmic bursts. If you’re angry, the muscles in your jaw might pulse — meaning they contract quickly in short bursts.
pulverize\When you pulverize something, you break it up until it becomes dust or powder. You might pulverize coffee beans in grinder, running it until the coffee turns to powder.
pump\A pump is a machine that sucks up liquid from one place and moves it somewhere else, like a gas pump. If you’re pumped about this word, you can put on pumps,  pump up the volume, and pump some iron!
punctual\When someone says “Be punctual,” that means you better be there on time. Five minutes late won’t cut it.
puncture\When you puncture something, you make a hole in it. Stick a pin in a balloon and you'll not only make kids cry, you'll also puncture the balloon.
pungent\Use pungent to describe a taste or smell that gives a sharp sensation. "What is that pungent odor?" is a polite way of suggesting that someone in the room has BO.
pupil\A pupil is an old-fashioned word for a young person attending school, or it can be that black dot in the center of your eye's iris. As a pupil, your pupils may dilate when your teacher dims the lights.
puppet\A doll or figure controlled by a person so that it appears to be moving on its own is a puppet. A puppet can be fun, but if you feel like a puppet, it seems like someone is controlling you. Not fun.
purchase\When you purchase a pair of shoes, you buy them. If you want to gain purchase, or favor, with new friends, you might tell them about your recent purchase of chocolate, and offer to share.
pure\The adjective pure describes something that's made of only one substance and is not mixed with anything else. For example, your favorite soft, warm winter scarf might be made from pure merino wool.
purity\Something that exhibits purity hasn't been tainted by something morally or physically. Children, fresh snow, and solid gold are all known for their purity.
purple\Purple is a shade that's a mixture of red and blue. If you are eating a grape Popsicle, get ready to spend a while with a purple tongue and lips.
purse\Though purses are mostly carried by women, this is the kind of purse anyone would love to bring home: it's a prize, usually consisting of money.
pursue\his application
pursuit\A pursuit is a chase or a quest for something. When a guard runs after an escaping jewel thief, she's in pursuit — while the thief may have stolen the jewels because he was in pursuit of wealth.
pygmy\A member of an ethnic group whose people tend to be very short or small is a pygmy. Anthropologists sometimes study pygmy groups.
pyramid\When you think pyramid, you're probably picturing the famous pyramids of Egypt — the enormous triangular monuments where pharaohs were buried thousands of years ago.
quagmire\A quagmire is a dangerous place, like the muddy shoreline of a pond. Because it's so hard to climb out of a quagmire, the word has also come to also mean any difficult or sticky situation you find yourself in.
quaint\Quaint means strange and unusual in an old-fashioned and charming way. It's a word you'd use to describe a little store that sells tea cozies and antique tea services, or your grandmother's habit of calling the radio the "wireless."
qualify\Make sure you know the context when using the word qualify. In one sense, it means to be right for, to measure up. In another sense, though, qualify means to change something slightly, to limit it or add a condition to it.
quality\The qualities of something are its distinguishing features, and those can be good or bad. The qualities you look for when buying a tightrope might include strength and pliability, but you probably wouldn't want one with a slippery quality.
quantify\When you quantify something, you're putting it in numbers. If you're asked to quantify the fingers on your hand, you better say five.
quarry\Both meanings of quarry have to do with going after something. An animal being hunted is called quarry, and when you dig a hole in the earth looking for rocks, both the digging and the hole are called quarry as well.
quartz\Quartz is a mineral that's usually clear or white, but is sometimes tinted a translucent color. It's common for quartz to be part of other rocks, and often you can see its stripes cutting through smooth beach stones.
quasar\A quasar is a starlike object in space that may emit energy, light, and radio waves.
questionnaire\A questionnaire is a form containing a set of questions. After the opening night of your new restaurant, ask your customers to fill out a questionnaire so they can help you know what still needs work.
quilt\his application
quit\To quit means to stop doing something. You might quit a lousy job or quit eating dessert.
quixote\his application
quiz\A quiz is a short series of questions with a quick result. A magazine quiz might tell a reader if "he's into you," or a pop quiz in English class will let your teacher know how far you got (or didn't get) in last night's reading.
quota\A quota is a specific number of things. If a quota is placed on the total number of apples each visitor can pick at an orchard, it means that once you've picked a certain number of apples, you have to stop.
quote\If a journalist is interviewing you and you blurt out something inappropriate, you will have to ask her not to quote you on that. Sometimes the word quote is used as shorthand for quotation, a passage of speech or writing that’s repeated word for word.
rachitic\adjaffected with, suffering from, or characteristic of rickets
racing\the sport of engaging in contests of speed
racket\If you're carrying a racket and wearing a sporty visor, people will guess that you're on your way to play tennis. A racket has a handle and a rounded frame laced with strings, and it's used to hit a ball.
radar\Radar is a system for locating objects by bouncing radio waves off of them. Air traffic controllers use radar to keep track of exactly where airplanes are.
radiate\When something radiates, it sends out waves or rays. The sun radiates light and warmth.
radical\If something is considered extremist or very different from anything that has come before it, call it radical.
radioactive\When an object gives off a certain kind of energy, like the sun or an x-ray machine, it can be described as radioactive.
radius\If you're a detective working a crime investigation, you might be told to "search over a one-mile radius," meaning, scope out everything that's within one mile of the crime scene.
raft\A raft is a vessel or structure that's made to float on water. You might have an inflatable raft you use for floating around your backyard pool.
rafter\A rafter is a long board that supports the peak of a roof. If your bedroom is in the attic of your house, you can lie in bed staring up at the rafters.
rage\Rage is a really intense anger. Some frustrated drivers let their emotions boil over into road rage when another car cuts them off, for example.
rainbow\That colorful arc you sometimes see in the sky right after it stops raining? That's a rainbow.
rainfall\water falling in drops from vapor condensed in the atmosphere
rakish\Ladies, the rakish fellow you met last night with the suave dance moves, smoothly rehearsed lines, and your number listed as “Goddess #14” in his phone is fine for a flirt, but probably isn’t meet-the-parents material.
rally\his application
ranch\A ranch is a large farm that raises animals, generally grazing animals like cows or sheep. If you dream of raising big, strange-looking birds, you could decide to have an emu or an ostrich ranch instead.
random\Something that’s random is lacking in order, plan, or purpose. It happens totally by chance, like the random picking of lottery numbers or unplanned random acts of kindness.
range\The word range refers to a variety of things or to an area in which something operates. The store offers the living room set in a range of colors. What's the range of that remote-controlled airplane?
rank\his application
rare\If an event is rare, it doesn't happen often.  If an object is rare, there aren't many of its kind.  Obviously, finding a rare gem is a rare occasion.
rash\A rash is something that spreads like wild fire — red itchy skin or a series of unfortunate events. It can also describe an impulsive, wild decision.
rate\When you pay a high rate, you pay a lot of money.  When you move at a high rate of speed, you go fast.  If you are a judge at a contest, you rate the contestants.
ratify\To ratify a treaty or contract is to officially approve it by signing or voting for it. You and your brothers and sisters might devise a plan for a family vacation to Disney World, but it would need to be ratified by your parents.
ratio\A ratio is the relationship in quantity or degree between two things: “The ratio of men to women on the construction site was ten to one.” This means there were ten men present and one woman.
ration\When you ration your supplies, you dole them out a little at a time. A ration is also a wartime military meal, or the portion of food that someone is allowed in times of scarcity.
rational\Use the adjective rational to describe people or ideas that operate according to logic or reason. While your brother has an artistic temperament, you have a rational one.
rattle\his application
raucous\Raucous means unpleasantly loud, or behaving in a noisy and disorderly way. It can be hard to give an oral report in the front of a classroom when the kids in the back are being raucous.
raw\Something that's raw is uncooked. A ripe raw tomato tastes very different from one that's slowly roasted with olive oil.
ray\A ray is a beam of light or radiation. Even on cloudy days, you sometimes see a ray of sunlight shine through the clouds.
rayon\a synthetic silklike fabric
react\When you react to something, you respond to it. If someone pokes you in class, you might react by sticking out your tongue at them. The teacher might then react by giving you both detention.
readily\Anything happening readily is happening without difficulty. A great party has cupcakes that are readily available. A great host will readily admit when it’s time to put more on the table.
realm\A realm is an area that is ruled by something. If you are a controlling cook who doesn’t like anyone to do anything else in the kitchen, then the kitchen is your realm.
rear\The rear is the back end of something, like the rear of a school bus or the members of the marching band who stand at the rear of the parade.
reason\A reason explains why you do something. The reason you go to school is to learn things (and because it's the law).
reassure\When we reassure other people, we pat them on the head, give them a hug, or say soothing words to convince them that everything is going to be OK.
rebel\his application
rebellion\A rebellion is when you rise up and fight those in power, usually on a large scale. In "Star Wars," the good guys fighting the powerful, evil empire were known as the rebellion.
rebuttal\When two people debate, one of them makes an argument, and the other follows with a rebuttal, which, plainly put, is the "no, you're wrong and this is why" argument.
recall\When you recall something, you remember it, like telling your friend, "As I recall, you said you'd buy my lunch the next time we got together."
receptacle\A receptacle is a container that's used for holding or storing things. If you are having a party on a rainy day, you can put a receptacle outside your door for your guests' umbrellas.
reception\Reception is the act of receiving, or getting something, or the way it is received. If your book receives a positive reception, it means people receive it well. In other words, they like it.
receptor\a cellular structure that is postulated to exist in order to mediate between a chemical agent that acts on nervous tissue and the physiological response
recession\Jobs being cut? Houses not selling? Everyone talking about the poor sales of everything from cars to bouquets of flowers? That's a recession, a time of economic decline.
recipe\A recipe is directions for making a dish or dessert, like your mother's award-winning recipe for chocolate chip cookies.
reckless\If you are reckless, you don't think or care about the consequences of your words or actions, like a reckless driver who speeds while texting, knitting, and eating a sandwich.
recognize\When, at a meeting, you wave your hand wildly, you want to be recognized.  When the chairperson finally says, “I recognize the man who is about to fall out of his seat,” don't forget what you wanted to say.
recollect\To recollect is to remember. You might struggle to recollect your high school French but have no trouble recollecting every ingredient in your dad's cinnamon roll recipe.
recommend\If you recommend a person or thing is to vouch for them. Recommend can also be to advise. If your doctor recommended an exercise program to you that's changed your life, you might recommend your doctor to your friends.
recover\To recover something is to get it back. After you lose your watch, you might recover it from the wastebasket.
recreation\The word recreation is a noun meaning just about anything you do for fun: bowling, flying a model airplane, or just swimming the English Channel. If you do it to relax, recharge your batteries, or just to amuse yourself, it's probably recreation.
recrudescent\adjthe revival of an unfortunate situation after a period of abatement
recruit\To recruit means to get someone to join something. You might recruit people for the navy or you might recruit members for your quilting group.
rectangle\his application
rectangular\In geometry, something that is rectangular had four sides and four right angles. Cereal boxes, dollar bills, and many cell phones have a rectangular shape.
recycle\When you recycle something, you process it so it can be used again. You might recycle an old tire and make it into a snazzy black knapsack with some very cool skid marks.
reddish\adjof a color at the end of the color spectrum (next to orange); resembling the color of blood or cherries or tomatoes or rubies
reef\A reef is a raised area on the ocean floor that's made of rock, coral, or sand. If you are a scuba diver, head to a coral reef to check out the diverse marine life.
refer\If you refer to something, you consult it. To check your spelling, you refer to a dictionary. If you want to know when your spring break starts, you can refer to your class schedule.
reference\his application
refine\When you refine something, you make it better. Whether it's sugar or an essay, refining it requires fixing its flaws.
refined\Something that's refined has gone through a process to remove impurities. An oil refinery removes impurities from oil. When a person's refined, they have good manners and good taste.
reflect\Something that reflects comes back to you. If you look in a mirror, you will see your reflected image. If you reflect on your past experiences, you look at them once again thoughtfully.
reform\When you reform something, you change it for the better.  If you're running for President, you might promise to reform government, although it's easier to promise reform than to actually accomplish it.
refreshing\Something is refreshing if it reinvigorates you, or seems new and exciting. The offer of a refreshing glass of iced tea would be especially refreshing if it came from your normally cranky sister.
refrigerate\To refrigerate something is to preserve it by keeping it cool. A gallon of milk might last a week if you refrigerate it, but it will be spoiled after a day or so if you leave it on the kitchen counter.
refund\his application
refurbish\Whether it’s a bike, an old computer, or a tennis stadium, when you refurbish something you clean it up and make it look or perform better.
regardless\If something is done without consideration, it's done regardless, usually followed by the word "of." Today you can sit wherever you'd like on a bus, regardless of your race, but this wasn't always the case.
regenerate\Starfish are famous for their ability to regenerate, or regrow, a lost arm. Anything that revives in this magical way can be said to regenerate.
region\A region is an area. A region can be geographic — like a part of a country. A region can be intellectual — like a region of the mind. There are also bodily regions — like abdominal, thoracic, and posterior.
register\Register has several meanings, but one of the most common is to write down or record officially. Like registering your car with the DMV and registering for classes at the beginning of a semester.
regular\The adjective regular is useful for describing something that happens in a specific way again and again, like your regular tasks at work.
regulate\The on-off spigot regulates the flow of water into your bathtub. When a government regulates an industry, they set standards the industry must follow. To regulate means to impose control.
rehabilitate\If you have been in a bad accident or have an addiction problem, you may go away for a stretch of time to rehabilitate yourself or, in other words, bring yourself back to health.
rehearse\When you rehearse, you practice something. You and your cast mates will need to rehearse for several weeks before you'll be ready to perform the entire two hours and forty-five minutes of the musical "Hamilton."
reinforce\To reinforce means to make stronger. You can reinforce your roof by putting some extra supports under it.
reject\When you reject something, you rule it out or dismiss it. If you're trying to pick a fancy restaurant to go to for your birthday, you'll probably reject the diner you went to just yesterday.
rejuvenate\When you make something young again or give it more life and energy, you rejuvenate it. For example, you can often rejuvenate a not-quite-dead plant, bringing it back to health with some water and some TLC.
relative\A relative is a person who is part of your family. Parents, siblings, uncles, aunts, grandparents, cousins, nieces and nephews — they're all relatives.
relatively\Use relatively when you want to make a statement about something compared to something else. After a zero degree day, 30 degrees might feel relatively warm.
relay\If you relay something, you pass it to another person. When you relay the information that your pet monkey is known to attack people to your neighbors, you should bring a basket of muffins.
release\To release something or someone is to set it free, like a caged animal or a prisoner.  “I shall be released” is a famous refrain from a 1967 Bob Dylan song that has come to symbolize political freedom around the world.
relevant\Something is relevant if it's appropriate or connected to the matter at hand. Relevant things are helpful and on point.
reliable\Calling something reliable means you can count on it to come through when you need it; it's dependable. If you're headed out for an around-the-world sailing trip, hopefully your lifejacket is reliable.
relic\A relic is a fragment from the past — one of Elvis's guitars, an ancient piece of pottery or even an outmoded way of thinking -– that remains behind. Your dad might love his old albums, but to you, they're just relics.
relief\The noun relief means "the act of reducing something unpleasant," like medicine that brings relief from your terrible headache.
relieve\To relieve is to ease a burden or take over for someone. An aspirin can relieve a headache, and a substitute can relieve the teacher who fell asleep on her desk after lunch.
religion\Religion has two related meanings: it’s the belief that one or more divine beings are responsible for the fate of all human life, and it’s also an organization where people of a specific religion can express their beliefs.
reluctant\If the adjective reluctant applies to you, it means that you are undergoing some inner struggle and are unwilling or unable to decide.
remainder\The remainder is whatever is left after the rest has been used up or taken away.
remains\The word remains can mean a dead body, so a detective might investigate to find out if some bones found in a lake are human or non-human remains.
remark\"If you see something, say something" might translate into, "If you remark something, make a remark." Remark means to notice, and it also means to comment, as in, "Keep your obnoxious remarks to yourself."
remarkable\Something remarkable is unusual, exceptional, interesting, or excellent. Remarkable things get your attention.
remind\To remind is to cause someone to remember, as when George Orwell writes, "The aim of a joke is not to degrade the human being, but to remind him that he is already degraded."
remnant\his application
remodel\vcast or model anew
remote\Remote describes something far, far away, like a campsite way out in the woods, a distant planet, or the chance you'll win the lottery.
removal\The word removal is the noun version of the verb to remove. When you "re-move" a sofa, you move it again by getting rid of it. You've seen to its removal.
renaissance\his application
render\his application
renew\If you make something like new, you renew it. When you catch up with an old friend you haven't seen in a long time, you renew your friendship.
renovate\To renovate means to renew or rebuild so that something is in good condition. When you move into an old house, you will probably want to renovate the kitchen and bathrooms.
repel\Use the verb repel when you want to turn something away. You might drench yourself in bug spray to repel the mosquitoes that plague you when you go camping.
repertoire\Repertoire refers to the full supply of what you can do. A singer's repertoire is all the songs he can sing. A chef's repertoire is what she knows how to cook.
repertory\A repertory is a collection of pieces that are ready to be performed, like a theater's repertory of plays or a singer's repertory of songs.
repetition\Use the noun repetition to describe something that is repeated over and over, like the repetition of singing the alphabet song several times a day to help young children learn the letters.
replenish\To replenish something is to refill it. If you have a pet pooch, you’re probably obligated to replenish his food bowl to avoid being barked at incessantly.
replicate\Did you just figure out how to make that excellent pizza you had in Philadelphia? Then what you’ve done is replicate it, meaning you’ve been able to reproduce it.
represent\Use the word represent when something stands in for something else — whether it's your congressman representing your interests in Washington or the thimble that represents you as it makes its way around the Monopoly board.
reproduce\To reproduce is to make more, either by having babies or creating copies. Parents and copy machines both reproduce.
reptile\A reptile is one of those mostly scaly and slimy animals that are cold-blooded and have backbones. Lizards and turtles? Yep — both reptiles. Puppies and kittens? No way.
republic\If you live in a republic, then you live in a country with a leader freely and democratically elected by the people, as opposed to a dictatorship or monarchy.
repute\A person of great or fine repute is someone who's widely known and highly respected.  The word has a stuffy feel, so you're better off describing a cellist as being of great repute than, say, a rapper or comedian.
request\To request something means to formally ask for it. If you're sick of always getting a middle seat on the airplane, put in a request for the aisle or window next time.
require\Require means to need. You require food, water, and shelter to live, but do you really require that new pair of high-fashion shoes?
rescue\When you rescue something, you save it from something bad — you come to the rescue. If Muffin, your kitten, is stuck in a tree, you can get out your ladder and climb up to rescue her.
resemble\Have you noticed that many pet owners resemble their pets? Or is it that pets resemble their owners? Either way, it’s downright strange how they often look alike.
reserve\his application
reservoir\The word reservoir refers to a place where large amounts of water get stored.  It can also be used to describe great amounts of other things, such as when you refer to a trivia expert as a reservoir of useless knowledge.
reside\The place where you live — whether house, hotel, or mobile home — is where you reside. The President of the United States resides at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, in a little shack called the White House.
resident\A resident is someone who lives somewhere particular, or a doctor-in-training who takes care of the patients at a hospital under the supervision of other doctors.
residue\Residue is anything that's left over when a substance has been removed, like the grease left over on a frying pan. It can also mean, simply, "remainder."
resin\Resin is a sticky substance that oozes out of trees including fir and pine trees. Because resin is insoluble in water, it's useful as a base in different kinds of glue and varnishes.
resist\To resist something is to keep it at bay or to fend off its influence or advance. You might not be able to resist the temptation to sneak out to the dance in spite of your parents' objections.
resolve\To resolve is to settle or make a decision about something — often formal. A college's board of directors  might resolve to recruit more minority students. As a noun, resolve refers to a strong determination to do something.
resonance\his application
resort\The noun resort means "turning to something or someone else for assistance." You tried everything to figure out your math homework on your own, so asking your dad for help was your last resort.
resource\A resource is any personal talent or outside supply that can be tapped for help or support.
respect\Respect is a way of treating or thinking about something or someone. If you respect your teacher, you admire her and treat her well.
respective\When two people each have something of their own, it's their respective thing. In a boxing match, the opponents each start in their respective or individual corners.
respond\his application
response\A response is a reaction to a question, experience, or some other type of stimulus. If you cry at sad movies, you're having an emotional response to the drama that's taking place on the screen.
responsible\If you're the responsible one, everyone is depending on you to take care of it. And, if things go poorly, it's all your fault.
restore\If you restore furniture for a living, you clean and repair it to bring it back to its original beauty.
restraint\Restraint is the act of holding something back. For example, if you exercise restraint over your emotions, you won't burst out into tears in public.
restrict\To restrict is to limit. If you want to eat more healthily, you might restrict, or limit, yourself to eating only foods containing fruits and vegetables –- like carrot cake and apple pie.
restricted\Have you ever seen a door labeled Restricted? If so, you probably know it means "Stay out." A restricted area can only be entered by certain people.
resume\his application
retail\If you buy a pair of jeans at your neighborhood Chique Boutique, you’re buying retail, but if you go to China and buy a boatload of jeans directly from the manufacturer, you’re buying wholesale, which is the opposite of retail.
retain\Retain means to hold on to or keep. People who can retain a lot of information are often mistaken for geniuses, but really they just have very good memories.
retreat\The noun retreat means a place you can go to be alone, to get away from it all. A spot under a shady tree might be your favorite retreat from the sun, or your bedroom in the basement may serve as a retreat from your siblings.
retrieve\When you retrieve something, you bring it back. Lots of dogs love to retrieve tennis balls, bringing them back to you over and over again.
reveal\When you make something visible or make it public information, you reveal it. For example, if you want to plan a picnic, wait until forecasters reveal the weather that is predicted.
revenue\Revenue is money earned by a business, or income received by the government from taxes. The government is always interested in dreaming up new sources of revenue, and so is the average head of a company unless she doesn't want to be the head anymore.
revere\Revere means to respect someone so deeply that you almost worship them. Many Americans revere civil rights activists like Martin Luther King, Jr. and Rosa Parks, who worked to make the country a more just place.
reverse\To go in reverse, you back up. If you reverse your position, you suddenly take the opposite side of the argument. If you reverse your fortunes, your bad luck turns good, or your good luck turns bad. Oops.
revert\While revert means to return to something earlier or to go back, it's often used wrongly in combination. If you're buying the older version of the game, you might say you're "reverting back," which is like saying "go back back."
review\To review means to look back over something for evaluation or memory. "The year in review" is a popular form of news feature near the end of December.
revise\To revise means to alter or improve a preliminary draft of something, usually a text. When you want your writing to be really great, you must revise it several times until it is perfect.
revitalize\To revitalize is to restore something to life or give it new life. Revitalizing adds newsness and strength.
revival\If something experiences a revival, that means it’s once again popular or important. If a news story mentions a revival in the technology industry, that means the industry, having gone through a slump, is once again thriving.
revolt\Revolt means to rise up against an authority in an act of rebellion. You might see an opposition group revolt against a government, or you might revolt against your oppressive 10:00 curfew.
revolution\When a new development in an industry changes everything drastically, call it a revolution. The Internet has certainly caused a revolution in the way people lead their lives.
reward\A reward is something you get for a job well done. If you study hard for that vocabulary test, an "A" might be the reward in your future.
rhinoceros\massive powerful herbivorous odd-toed ungulate of southeast Asia and Africa having very thick skin and one or two horns on the snout
rhyme\A rhyme is when the ending sounds of two words sound alike — like "mouse" and "house" or "complain" and "sustain." If you have a knack for rhyme, you might have a bright future as a poet.
rhythm\his application
ribald\Something ribald is funny, but in a vulgar or off-color way. If someone makes a ribald joke in class, she will probably be sent to the principal's office.
ribbon\his application
ride\To ride is to be carried in a car, on a bike, or on an animal. When you ride a horse for the first time, it's often surprising how far off the ground you are.
ridge\A ridge is a long, narrow, elevated strip of land or any raised strip or band. A ridge is a line that rises above what it is attached to.
ridiculous\Did you just say that you could toss a rubber chicken over an ocean? Don’t be ridiculous, because ridiculous words are hard to believe, and they will make others laugh at you, not always in a good way either.
rigid\Describe something as rigid if it's really stiff and not very flexible, like a super-strict practice schedule or an unbending, uncomfortable mattress.
rigor\When a school boasts of its academic rigor, it means its students learn a lot and work really hard. Rigor means thoroughness and exhaustiveness––the gold standard for a good teacher.
rigorous\If you are rigorous when you do something, you do it extremely carefully and precisely. A rigorous inspection of your tax records has revealed the government owes you money. Congratulations!
ripe\his application
rite\A rite is a ceremony or event that leads to a new phase of life, like high school graduation or a bat mitzvah.
ritual\A ritual is a ceremony or action performed in a customary way. Your family might have a Saturday night ritual of eating a big spaghetti dinner and then taking a long walk to the ice cream shop.
rival\A rival is a competitor or contender that you want to defeat, whether in an actual competition or for another goal. It may be a tennis rival or a rival for your true love’s affections.
roam\When you wander without a plan or a specific destination, you roam. Your cat may stay close to your house when you let her outside, or she may roam around the neighborhood all day.
roar\To roar is to make a ferociously loud sound, like a lion or a tiger. If you go to a football game, you'll hear the crowd roar whenever their team scores a goal.
robust\his application
rod\A rod is a bar or a stick, like the curtain rods in your windows or the steel rods inside the structure of a building that help make it sturdy.
rodent\his application
rodeo\A rodeo is a type of entertainment that shows off cowboy skills, such as wrestling steers and roping cattle.
roe\eggs of female fish
roll\When something moves by rotating or spinning, it rolls. If your dog is smart enough, you can train her to roll a ball back to you after you roll it to her.
romantic\If something is romantic, it isn't very practical, like the librarian's romantic dream of convincing every person in town to read a book a week for life — a great idea that probably isn't possible.
rotate\Rotate means to circle around a center point. Wheels on a car rotate, planets rotate, and if you're an ice skater, you rotate on the blade of a skate when you do your spins.
rough\Rough means harsh and uneven. If you want to go driving in the rough terrain of rocky dirt roads, you'll need four-wheel drive and a stomach for bouncing.
roughly\advwith rough motion as over a rough surface
routine\A routine is like a habit or sequence that doesn't vary. There are daily routines and dance routines, and maybe even daily dance routines.
rub\his application
rudimentary\Rudimentary means basic, or at a very early stage. The test should be easy: it requires only a rudimentary understanding of the materials.
rug\A rug is something made of woven fabric that covers a floor. If your downstairs neighbor is complaining about the noise, try buying a rug.
rugged\Terrain that is broken and uneven is called rugged. If you want an easy hike, you should stay away from the rugged coastline. That rocky shoreline is definitely for the more experienced hikers.
ruin\To ruin means to wreck or destroy. If you're wearing a long dress, make sure your clumsy brother stays away from you. If he steps on it, it'll rip and be ruined.
rumor\A rumor is a story which may not be true. Everyone may be talking about the rap superstar who stopped for ice cream in your town, but until there's proof that it really happened, the whole thing is just a rumor.
run\When you run, you move along quickly, and for a long time if you're running a marathon. You can also run a campaign or a business — you make them function.
rupture\A rupture is a break or tear in something that pulls it apart. A rupture can be a literal break, like the one that happens in, say, a gas line, or it can be more figurative, as in a friendship or a business deal.
rural area\an area outside of cities and towns
rural\Rural means "relating to or characteristic of the country or the people who live there." If you move to a rural area, you won't see a lot of skyscrapers or taxis — but you'll probably see a lot of trees.
rust\Rust is the reddish-brown stuff that forms over time on metal that's gotten wet. Your dad's beat-up old car probably has some rust on it somewhere.
rustic\When you think of the word rustic, think of the rural country. This word can be given a positive or a negative spin depending on how you use it; a rustic inn, for example, might be quaint or it might be virtually uninhabitable.
sac\A sac is a hollow space or container. While any pocket or pouch can be called a sac, the word usually refers to a small enclosed space that occurs in nature, like a spider's egg sac or a squid's ink sac.
sacred\Something sacred is holy, devoted to a religious ceremony, or simply worthy of awe and respect. Jerusalem is a sacred place for many religions, just as Fenway is a sacred place for Red Sox fans.
sacrosanct\You might be enraged at the idea of doing homework on a Saturday if you consider your weekends sacrosanct — meaning they are too special or important to interrupt.
safe\If you're safe, you're out of harm's way, or protected from being hurt. These days most parents strap their small children into car seats to keep them safe.
sail\A sail is the big piece of cloth attached to a mast that propels a sailboat through the water by catching the wind. Part of learning to sail a boat is learning how to use the sails.
sake\Sake means the purpose for doing something. You might run a fund-raising marathon for the sake of sick children.
salamander\A salamander is a small amphibian that looks a lot like a lizard and lives mainly on land. They look cute in a terrarium and less cute on your bathroom floor.
saleswoman\a woman salesperson
salient\his application
saliva\The watery stuff in your mouth is called saliva. Saliva helps you swallow, but it can also be used to prep a spit ball.
salmon\A salmon is a big, silver-skinned fish that lives in both the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. Many commercial fishermen catch salmon.
salon\Use the noun salon when you talk about the place you get your hair cut. A salon is a good place to get a perm or highlights, to get your nails painted, or just to get a trim.
sample\A sample is a small part of something that either represents a bigger whole or is designed to let you try something out. You might ask to try a sample of an exotic ice cream flavor before committing to buying a whole cone.
sanction\Sanction has two nearly opposite meanings: to sanction can be to approve of something, but it can also mean to punish, or speak harshly to. Likewise, a sanction can be a punishment or approval. Very confusing — the person who invented this word should be publicly sanctioned!
sanitation\his application
sapphire\If your grandmother gives you her sapphire ring, it will probably have a translucent blue stone on it, though you may end up with a rare yellow sapphire.
satanic\Satanic things are very bad or evil. You might describe your math teacher's pop quizzes as satanic, but that would be a bit of an exaggeration.
satchel\A satchel is a bag with a shoulder strap. People often carry their books in a leather satchel.\r\n\t\t\t\t\r\n\t\t\r\n\t\t\r\n\t\t\r\n\t\t\r\n\t\t\r\n\t\t\r\n\t\tThere are many types of luggage people use for carrying their belongings, such as suitcases, briefcases, purses, backpacks, and duffel bags. Another is the satchel, which is a small or medium-sized case with a flat bottom. A satchel usually has a shoulder strap which makes it easier to carry, and it's often full of books. The word satchel is related to sack, both coming from the Latin root saccus, or "bag."\t\t\r\n\t\t
satellite\A satellite is something small or less powerful that orbits around something bigger. It often describes a body in space, such as an artificial satellite that orbits the Earth and beams down signals that power devices like cell phones.
satiate\If you just can't get enough popcorn, even the jumbo tub at the movie theater may not be enough to satiate, or satisfy, your desire.
satire\Satire is a way of making fun of people by using silly or exaggerated language. Politicians are easy targets for satire, especially when they're acting self-righteous or hypocritical.
satiric\his application
saturate\The verb saturate means to cause something to be fully soaked to the point where it can't take on anything else. A heavy rainstorm can saturate the ground, leaving puddles on the lawn because no more water can be absorbed.
Saturn\his application
sauce\A sauce is a nearly-liquid or soft topping or condiment for food. You might prefer your spaghetti with tomato sauce and your broccoli with cheese sauce.
savage\A polar bear in a zoo might look like an adorable giant stuffed animal, but if you met a hungry one in its native environment, it would seem more savage — wild and fierce — than cute.
save\To save is to keep safe. So, you might save money for college, save a kitten from drowning, or save a dropped football.
saving\his application
scale\A scale is a series that climbs up or down. Think of scaling, or climbing, a mountain; a musical scale: do-re-mi-fa-so-la-ti-do; or a scale you weigh yourself on––it counts up the pounds one after another after another.
scan\When you scan a subway car to see if your friend is on it, your eyes pass quickly across the riders. When you get a scan of your knee at the doctor's office, a much more detailed picture is taken, showing your bones, tendons, and muscles.
scar\A scar is a place where a wound healed but is still visible, or if you're little, it's a mark where a boo-boo was.
scarce\If something is scarce, there isn't much of it around. Crops are scarce after a long drought, or you might find babysitters scarce if your kids are a nightmare to watch.
scarf\a garment worn around the head or neck or shoulders for warmth or decoration
scatter\If you hear someone shout "Everybody scatter!” that person wants everyone to spread out and leave the area. Scatter is a verb that means "to separate suddenly and spread out in different directions."
scavenger\Ever catch a raccoon in your garbage can? The critter is a scavenger, digging around for whatever it can find to eat. In fact, anything or anybody searching for and collecting what others have tossed away is a scavenger.
scenery\Scenery is a word for how a place looks, especially a beautiful, outdoorsy place. Also, scenery is fake background in a play.
scent\A scent is a smell. Every house has a particular scent that is recognizable to people as belonging to that house.
schedule\A schedule is a plan of things to be done and the time when they will be done. It is the thing you write down in your planner. If you're a student, you probably have your class schedule memorized within the first few weeks of school.
scheme\A scheme is an elaborate plan or plot. It's going to take a really solid scheme, probably involving teleportation or some sort of temporary cloning, to make an appearance at both parties at once.
scholar\Someone who learns is a scholar, though the word also means someone with a lot of knowledge in one subject. If you know a lot about books, you could be called a literary scholar.
science fiction\Science fiction — often called sci-fi — is a type of literature focusing on how science might influence society in the future.
scope\Business people like to use the word scope because it specifies the extent of their responsibilities. Once you know the scope of a project, you can decide if you're qualified and how much time it will take to do it.
scorch\To scorch is to burn something fiercely, to the point where its surface — your face, prairie grass, a steak on the grill — chars or otherwise changes color.
score\When you're playing a game, your score is the number of points you have. If the score of a basketball game is 34 to 34, it means both teams have 34 points — the score is tied.
scout\vexplore, often with the goal of finding something or somebody
scrape\To scrape something is to scratch or remove its surface. If you scrape your knee, you'll probably need a Band Aid.
scratch\I didn’t remember to bring my puppy, Fido, in from the snow until he began to frantically scratch at the door. A scratch is marking or marring a surface with something sharp, such as a nail against metal or fingernails across skin.
screen\partition consisting of a decorative frame or panel that serves to divide a space
script\A script is a written version of a play or movie. If you're auditioning for a movie, you'll get the script to practice a scene or two.
scrub\When you scrub something, you wash it forcefully. You might scrub your dirty bathtub with a brush and some bleach, for example.
scruffy\adjshabby and untidy
scuba\A scuba is a portable breathing device for deep sea divers. With the help of a scuba tank, divers can explore very deep parts of the ocean.
sculpt\To sculpt is to shape or carve a figure out of a moldable or hard material. You could sculpt a figure of your mom's cat or you could sculpt your biceps by lifting weights.
sculpture\Sculpture is a type of artwork that's two- or three-dimensional, so you can see it from different sides. You can make sculpture from clay, marble, wood, and even mashed potatoes, though the potato kind might not make it into an art museum.
scurry\Scurry means to move quickly, at a frenzied pace, and often also implies the urge to hide. When you come upon a mouse in your house, chances are it will scurry away.
seal\A seal can be either the cute mammal at the aquarium balancing a beach ball on its nose, or the fancy stamp on your diploma that acts as an official "seal of approval" from your school.
secede\To secede is to go your own way, breaking off ties. Usually, this refers to one part of a country that wants to become independent, like the South during the U.S. Civil War.
secondary\Something secondary is second most important. This can also refer to things that are not important at all.
secrete\Secrete is all about secrets. It means both "to hide" and "to release." When you squeeze a lemon, it secretes juice. When you stuff your money in a mattress, you secrete it there.
sect\A sect is a religious group that exists inside of a larger religion. Think of it as a section of a particular religion.
section\A section is a part or piece of something that fits together with the other pieces to make a whole. Like the arts section of a newspaper, or the rhythm section of the band that gets reviewed in it.
secure\Secure means safe, protected. Your money is secure in a bank. Supportive friends and family make you feel secure.
sedentary\Scientists believe that one of the causes of the obesity epidemic sweeping the U.S. is our sedentary lifestyle. Sedentary means sitting a lot and refers to a person or job that is not very physically active.
sediment\Sediment is the accumulation of sand and dirt that settles in the bottom of lakes. Sediment is also what you get in the bottom of a glass of iced tea when the sugar doesn’t all dissolve.
seep\Seep means to leak slowly. When you see the word, imagine water coming in through your sneakers on a rainy day. It's not a lot of water, but your feet still get pretty wet.
segment\A segment is one of several pieces that together create a whole. You could offer a segment of your orange to your girlfriend as a Valentine's Day gift. She’ll probably enjoy the orange, but she may break up with you.
segregate\To separate people by race or religion is to segregate them. In general, the word segregate means to separate one type of thing from another.
seismic\For the ancient Greeks, "seismos" meant an earthquake. Later on, when the study of earthquakes became a science, anything seismic meant anything related to the study of the pressures in the Earth's crust.
seismograph\A seismograph is an instrument scientists use to measure the strength of an earthquake.
seismology\If you're fascinated by earthquakes and the science behind them, you might want to study seismology. This branch of geology includes learning about tectonic plates, volcanoes, and earthquake prediction.
semester\A semester is half of a school year. In September of your first year of high school, you could describe yourself as "a first-semester freshman."
seminar\A seminar means a class or meeting, but it carries with it extra weight.  An educational  seminar indicates a small, advanced study, while a meeting labeled as such means an intense exchange of ideas.
senate\When a government is split into two houses, or assemblies, one of them — the "upper house" — is called a senate. The main job of most senates is to take a second look at legislation after it's been passed by the lower house.
senator\A senator is a person who works in the government. In the United States, senators are elected by voters to represent them in a state or federal senate.
senior\You can use the word senior to describe anyone who's older than you are. You might say, "My brother is six years my senior," especially if you want to make him feel old.
sensible\Sensible means practical and reasonable. If you're wearing sensible shoes, they're sturdy, comfortable, good for walking, and your feet don't hurt. If you're a sensible person, you're level-headed and calm, and you make wise decisions.
sensitive\Sensitive describes something or someone who reacts quickly and strongly. It's often something to protect — like baby skin, government documents, or a fragile ecosystem.
sensory\The adjective sensory describes something relating to sensation — something that you feel with your physical senses. Sticking a knife into a toaster will give you a sensory experience, but so will smelling a rose. Stick with the rose.
sentimental\Call a person sentimental if he or she is led more by emotions than by reason. If you have a sentimental attachment to a favorite stuffed animal, you'll probably even bring it to college with you.
sentinel\A sentinel is a guard, a lookout, a person keeping watch. It's often a soldier, but not always. If you're watching a pot, waiting for it to boil, you're standing sentinel over it — and incidentally, it won't boil until you leave.
separate\Things that are separate are kept apart from other things. A married couple heading for divorce might eat breakfast at separate tables.
sequence\When things come in sequence, they come in a specific order. It could be a chronological sequence, a sequence following a pattern (red-blue-brown, red-blue-brown), or a cause-and-effect sequence.
sequestrate\vkeep away from others
sequoia\either of two huge coniferous California trees that reach a height of 300 feet; sometimes placed in the Taxodiaceae
series\The World Series consists of a series of seven games between the champions of the National and American Baseball Leagues. A series is a group of similar things happening one after the other.
session\A session is a specific block of time dedicated to something. Court may be in session, or school may be in session, or you just might find yourself enjoying a massage therapy session.
setting\A setting is where something is set, or placed. If you want to propose to your beloved, try to choose a romantic setting.
settlement\A settlement is a colony or any small community of people. If a bunch of people build houses on the moon together, they’ll have the first lunar settlement. A settlement is also the resolution of something such as a lawsuit.
severe\Whether you're talking about a punishment, the weather, or how bad your flu is, severe indicates that it's at the limit of the spectrum.
sew\Sew describes stitching something together. If you sew up the holes in your socks, you use thread and a needle to close them.
sewage\The waste water that flows down drains and through pipes from toilets and sinks is called sewage. There's nothing quite like smelling sewage on a hot summer day.
shade\Shade is a break from the glare of the sun, like the shade of a big tree or the shade under a beach umbrella.
shallow\The adjective shallow can describe things that aren't very deep, like a shallow puddle, or people who don't have much emotional or intellectual depth, like shallow people who judge others on their looks and how much money they have.
shatter\When you shatter something, you smash it or break it into small bits. If your sister hits a baseball directly into the kitchen window, the window will shatter — and your sister will be in big trouble.
shear\A shear is a cutting implement that looks like a long pair of scissors. Also like scissors, this form of the noun is usually plural. You can cut metal, prune a tree, or cut up a chicken with shears.
shed\The small, simple building in your yard where you keep tools or gardening equipment is a shed.
sheer\If your curtains allow light to pass through, they're sheer, or see-through. Sheer can also describe something steep, like a cliff, or anything extreme, like sheer nerve.
shell\the material that forms the hard outer covering of many animals
shelter\Shelter is one of the basic human needs along with food, water, and companionship. It is a structure that protects you from the elements and gives you a place to live.
shield\his application
shift\Shift the verb and shift the noun are very similar in meaning. A shift is a change in something or an adjustment in the way something is done. You can either make a shift (that's the noun), or you can just shift (that's the verb).
shopping\searching for or buying goods or services
shore\The land right at the edge of a lake, river, or ocean is called the shore. Even the bravest swimmers will head for the shore when they hear someone yell "Shark!"
shortage\A shortage is a lack of something, especially a severe lack. A drought is a shortage of water.
shortly\advin the near future
shovel\A shovel is the tool you need if you want to dig holes in the ground. If you're taking your younger cousins to the beach, be sure to bring lots of pails and shovels so they can build a sandcastle.
shower\a brief period of precipitation
shrimp\A shrimp is a small crustacean that lives on the ocean floor. You may be most familiar with the shrimp you order at a seafood restaurant, but there are over 2,000 species of shrimp in the world.
shrink\Shrink is the informal word you can use to talk about a therapist. Talking about your problems with her can hopefully help you shrink them, or make them smaller.
shroud\Are the rules of calculus shrouded in mystery to you? The verb shroud means to hide or cover something or someone. The fog might shroud the valley, or that long-sleeved, ankle-length dress might shroud the tan you worked so hard on in Mexico over Christmas break.
shrub\A shrub is a short, tree-like plant with many stems or branches. If you want to tastefully spruce up your front yard, you might plant a flowering shrub or two — or maybe you're the type who would prefer some plastic garden gnomes.
shuttle\A shuttle runs between two or more places regularly. The benefit to staying at a hotel close to the airport is that you can take a shuttle, or a regular bus that travels back and forth, to catch your plane in the morning.
sibling\A sibling is your brother or sister. It's that simple.
siege\Your city is under siege if it is surrounded on all sides by an opposing force on attack. Think of a castle surrounded by a legion of armed knights.
sieve\A sieve is a mesh strainer used to separate lumps and clumps from the fine material. Sieves are handy for everything from sifting flour to prospecting for gold — anything where you need to separate the big from the small.
sightseeing\Sightseeing is what you do when you travel somewhere and spend time visiting museums, sites, or neighborhoods. You might dream of sightseeing in Paris someday.
signal\his application
significantly\Anything that happens significantly happens in a big way. A significantly happier person has gotten much happier. Moving into a significantly bigger house means you can finally get that indoor pony.
signify\To signify means to "mean." When Paul Revere looked for the lanterns in the church tower, he knew that one would signify that the British were coming by land and two would indicate that they were coming by sea.
silica\his application
silicon\a tetravalent nonmetallic element; next to oxygen it is the most abundant element in the earth&#039;s crust; occurs in clay and feldspar and granite and quartz and sand; used as a semiconductor in transistors
silt\Silt is the fine bits of clay and sand that become sediment settling at the bottom of a river or lake. If there's a lot of silt flowing in a river, it looks murky.
similar\Similar things are alike.  If you and your best friend both like walking, mystery novels, and chocolate, and you both dislike jogging, science fiction, and Brussels sprouts, the two of you have similar tastes.
simmer\Usually when you're making a soup, you want to bring it to a boil and then let it simmer, cooking it just below the boiling point to get all the flavors to release.
simpatio\his application
simply\advin a simple manner; without extravagance or embellishment
simulate\When you simulate something, you imitate it. Hollywood makeup artists can use pencils and gray wigs to simulate old age in a young actor. It can also mean to model — a computer can simulate disaster scenarios in cities.
simultaneous\The adjective simultaneous describes something that is done at the same time as something else. "The teachers all assigned simultaneous projects to the students that week. The kids were grumbling and sleep-deprived due to the grind."
sinew\The tendon that connects muscles to bone is also called sinew. The noun is also used to suggest strength and resilience, and is sometimes used as a literary term for muscle, literal or metaphorical, as in “a nation’s sinew.”
sinuous\Sinuous means winding or curvy. If you get lost on a sinuous mountain path, you'll need a compass or a GPS to figure out which direction leads back to camp.
situated\adjsituated in a particular spot or position
skeletal\Use the adjective skeletal to describe anything that relates to a skeleton or anything without a lot of "flesh," like the skeletal remains of a bird or the skeletal outline of a paper that is missing all the details.
skeleton\One thing every person (and most animals) in the world has in common is a skeleton: we all have a connected group of bones that help shape and support our bodies.
skeptical\If a friend told you that her family was perfect and they never had any problems, would you believe her? If not, you may be skeptical. Skeptical people look at the world with a certain amount of doubt.
sketch\A sketch is a rough or brief outline of something. If you hand in a sketch, instead of your full paper, don't expect to get a very high grade!
skiff\A skiff is a small boat. If you decide to purchase a skiff instead of giant yacht, you're probably someone who prefers the quiet, simple life. (Or maybe you just didn’t want to spend the money on a yacht.)
skip\When you skip, you do a little hop from foot to foot as you move along. It's pretty common to see little kids skip down the sidewalk or across the playground.
skull\The bones of a person's or animal's head make up the skull. All vertebrates have a skull. Pirate flags often feature a human skull and crossbones (because a parrot skull wouldn’t be nearly so scary).
skyscraper\A skyscraper is a very tall building, like New York City's Empire State Building, which held the title of "World's Tallest Building" for many years.
slave\Someone who is the property of another person is called a slave. To own a slave is morally and legally wrong; people should be free.
sleave\his application
sled\If you want to slide down a snowy hill, hop on a sled! A sled can be simple and plastic, or it can be more complicated, with wood and metal runners, like the kind that huskies pull across the tundra. Mush!
sledding\Want to go sledding? Just jump on a sled and zip down a snowy hill! Whee! Sledding down a hill is fun, but dragging the sled back up is way less fun.
sleeper\A sleeper is something that succeeds when no one thought it would. That low-tech movie about shark attacks that you shot on vacation and edited in your basement? It could be a sleeper if you market it in the right way.
slender\Something slender is slight, or skinny. A young colt is slender compared to the full grown horse it will grow into.
slice\A slice is a narrow piece or portion of something (particularly food), like a slice of bread or a slice of pizza.
slide\To slide is to move down or across something in a smooth way. If you’re into that kind of thing, head to a playground and go down a slide. Just don’t push any toddlers out of the way.
slight\Anything slight is very small. There's a slight chance you'll run into a celebrity in New York City — in other words, don't count on it. A slight is also an insult, like giving someone the cold shoulder. Burr.
slip\When you slip, you slide or skid unintentionally. A slip is also a kind of underwear you wear under a skirt. A Freudian slip, on the other hand, is a slip of the tongue.
slog\When you slog, you toil at something, working hard and often slowly to get a difficult job done. You might slog with your shovel through the pile of snow in your driveway.
slope\If you find yourself on a slippery slope, watch out: you could be sliding down a hill. Land that is not level is called a slope. Slope can also be a verb, as in land that slopes down to sea level.
sloppy\Sloppy means "untidy" or "messy." If your bedroom has clothes all over the floor, it's sloppy. And, if you end up with food all over your shirt every time you eat something, you're sloppy.
sloth\If you lounge around in your bathrobe watching TV and ordering out for pizza, you'll get called a sloth. A sloth is actually a slow-moving, tree-dwelling mammal, but it has become a synonym for "lazybones."
sluice\Anything that resembles a water slide with a gate is a sluice — a narrow channel that controls water flow.
slum\A slum is a poor area of a big city. A slum is usually overcrowded and dirty, a discouraging place to live.
slumber\Slumber means "sleep" — as a verb or noun. If you're a sound sleeper, you might slumber peacefully right through a thunderstorm, your slumber undisturbed.
sly\When you're sly, you're crafty, cunning, tricky, and wily. Being sly is being deceitful, though not in the worst way.
smash\To smash something is to hit or throw it so hard that it breaks or is hurt. It's important to pay careful attention while you're driving so you don't smash into the car in front of you.
smoothly\advwith no problems or difficulties
smother\To smother is to overwhelm or suffocate. If you've ever had a boyfriend or girlfriend who calls you twenty five times an hour to check up on you, then you know what it means to be smothered by someone.
snack\A snack is a small serving of food between meals. Enjoy a healthy snack such as apples with peanut butter, or indulge in a bag of chips. After a huge breakfast, you might just want a light snack instead of lunch.
snap\Oh, snap! When something snaps, it breaks or separates suddenly, often with a cracking sound. A snap can also be a fastener on clothes. And if you like a song, you can snap your fingers to the beat or snap a selfie of yourself dancing.
snowflake\his application
so-called\When you say someone is a so-called pacifist, you are suggesting that they are a pacifist in name only. While they are busy making everyone talk about how peaceful they are, chances are they're also bombing villages to dust.
soccer\Soccer is a sport that's played with a round black and white ball that players pass to each other using their feet. To win a soccer match, your side has to kick the ball into the goal more times than your rivals do. Go team!
sociology\his application
sock\A sock is a piece of clothing you wear on your foot, under your shoe, and socks usually come in pairs. You can wear only one sock if you like, but your other foot might get jealous.
soda\In many parts of the U.S., soda is a sweet, fizzy drink. There are also some places where you'd call soda "pop," a "soft drink," or "Coke" instead.
sodium\Sodium is a chemical element, a soft silver-colored metal. When it's combined with chlorine, sodium turns into table salt. If you have high blood pressure, you doctor might tell you to cut back on sodium in your diet.
soft\Soft things are fluffy or yielding to the touch. A kitten's fur and your favorite fleece pajama pants are soft. So is spreadable cheese or the spongy ground of a wet field.
solar\Does it come from the sun? Is it related to the sunshine? Does it depend on sunny rays of light to function? Then it's probably safe to call it solar.
sole\Sole means not shared with others. If it's your sole responsibility to make the chocolate cake for a party, it's all on you.
solicit\Solicit means to ask for. It is what those people on the street are doing, when they ask, "Do you have a moment to talk about the destruction of the planet?" They are soliciting donations for their cause.
solid\A solid, as opposed to a liquid or gas, has a size and shape to it. It doesn't flow like water or disappear into the air.
solitary\If you're a lone wolf, a one-man band, a rugged individualist, or an island unto yourself, you prefer to be solitary — in other words, alone or single. The term can be used to describe a person, a place, or a thing.
solo\A versatile word, solo means "alone" and can be used as a verb ("I get to solo in band today"), a noun ("She sang a beautiful solo"), or an adjective (I can't wait for my solo flight").
soluble\Sugar is soluble. It dissolves easily in water. You can also use the word to describe a problem that can be solved easily.
solution\A solution is all about solving or dissolving. If you find an answer to a question, both the answer and how you got there is the solution. If you dissolve a solid into a liquid, you've created a different kind of solution.
solvent\Solvent’s meaning changes pretty drastically depending on its part of speech. As a noun, solvent is either a certain kind of chemical or an idea that solves a problem. As an adjective, solvent describes someone who's got cash on hand.
somewhat\advto a small degree or extent
soothe\To soothe is to relieve or to bring comfort. If the pounding in your head is driving you mad, it sounds like you might need an aspirin or two to soothe your headache.
sophisticated\If something is sophisticated, it's complicated and intricate. The inner workings of a computer are sophisticated. Sophisticated can also refer to having good taste. Either way, sophisticated things are impressive.
soprano\The opera performer with the highest voice is a soprano. A soprano is usually a woman, and she can hit the high notes.
sore\A sore is a broken patch of skin — something you might put a bandage on — or it's something that gives you pain, like a sore throat, that’s red and scratchy and painful.
sorry\To be sorry is to feel regret or feel bad about something — usually something you did. "I'm sorry" is an apology.
sound\A sound is a noise, something you can hear if you're in the right spot and it's loud enough. A doorbell, a fire alarm, a cat's meow, or your brother's snoring — they’re all sounds.
sour\If something is sour, it has a tangy or sharp flavor, like a lemon. Your brother may love the taste of limes, while they're way too sour for you.
souvenir\A souvenir is a keepsake or a remembrance. A telltale sign that someone has visited Paris is the tiny, metal Eiffel Tower hanging from her keychain as a souvenir.
sow\When you plant seeds in the ground, you sow them. You can also sow things like doubts or ideas, simply by spreading them around. If your ideas (or your seeds) develop and grow, you've successfully sown them.
soybean\the most highly proteinaceous vegetable known; the fruit of the soybean plant is used in a variety of foods and as fodder (especially as a replacement for animal protein)
space suit\his application
space\Before hiring a moving company to bring a grand piano into your studio apartment, you should measure how much space you actually have available.
span\Any distance between two things is called a span. These end points can be physical, like the span of a rope between two trees, or they can be more abstract, such as the span of time between five and six o'clock.
spare\Spare describes something that is extra. If you have a spare tire for your bike you can replace a flat, and if there's enough change in your pocket you can spare some to patch a friend's tire.
spark\A spark is a small, glowing particle that's either thrown off of a fire or that starts a fire. Your dad might tell everyone to stand back from the bonfire so they don't get burned by a spark.
sparse\Something that’s sparse is thin, not dense. If you’re looking for the perfect place to build a tree house, a sparse forest is probably not your best bet.
spawn\Technically, the mass of small eggs laid by animals like fish, frogs, mollusks is called spawn. But the word has been borrowed to mean offspring, or the act of making them in general.
special\Special means "better than ordinary." Like the self-portrait you lovingly painted as a surprise for your sweetie's birthday, something special is distinct, and surpasses the norm.
specialize\To specialize is to narrow down your focus, in your studies or profession, to a specific field. If you love playing the accordion, perhaps you should specialize in polka music.
specialized\Someone or something specialized has a specific purpose or function. A podiatrist is a specialized doctor. With months of specialized training, a person could learn to walk over hot coals. Good thing that there are doctors specialized in fixing feet.
species\A species is a distinct group of animals or plants that have common characteristics and can breed with each other. Your poodle and your bulldog are the same species, but your hamster and your goldfish are not.
specify\To explicitly name something or state a particular detail, you specify that thing. So, when you have a craving for dessert and you send someone to the store to buy ice cream, you may want to specify a flavor.
specimen\A specimen is a sample of something, like a specimen of blood or body tissue that is taken for medical testing.
spectacle\A spectacle is something you can't believe you are seeing. Get on top of your desk at work in your underpants while playing the kazoo and you're making a spectacle of yourself.
spectacular\Spectacular is both a noun and an adjective. The noun spectacular refers to a big, beautiful production, like a play or musical performance that has a huge cast and many dance numbers.
spectator\If you're watching something, you're a spectator. Football stadiums and circus tents are full of spectators.
spectrum\A spectrum is a broad range of similar things or qualities, like the wide spectrum of political beliefs in this country, ranging anywhere from super conservative to über-liberal and everything in between.
speculate\When you speculate, you use what you know to make a prediction about an outcome, like when you speculate that the injury of two key players will prevent your favorite team from going far in the playoffs this year.
spew\To spew is to forcefully expel something, the way a volcano spews hot lava when it erupts, or the way you might spew soda from your mouth if your friend makes you laugh right after you take a big gulp.
sphere\Marbles, oranges, bubbles, and beach balls — all of these objects illustrate the shape of a sphere, or globe (unless the beach balls are under-inflated, in which case they’re sort-of a “squished-sphere” shape).
spice\You can spice up your meal with chili powder — or you can spice up your room with a disco ball! Spice is usually a flavoring for food, but you can add spice to other things by jazzing them up.
spill\When liquids spill, they accidentally flow or dribble out of a container. You can also spill solid objects, like when you slip and spill the contents of your backpack all over the sidewalk.
spin\When you spin, you whirl around in a circle. Many kids love to spin on a merry-go-round.
spinning\creating thread
spinster\A spinster is an older, unmarried woman. Even if you're in awe of your Aunt Sally's glamorous, single life, your grandmother might dismiss her as a spinster.
spiny\Spiny things are prickly or barbed, like a porcupine or a cactus. You have to be careful when you pick up something spiny.
spiral\A spiral is a coil or curl, like the shape of a piece of hair wound around your finger, a Slinky toy, or a corkscrew.
spiritual\Spiritual things are concerned with sacred matters or religion, affecting the spirit or the soul. Spiritual entities like ghosts lack a material body or substance.
splash\A splash is a tiny amount of a liquid. You might, for example, prefer your coffee with just a splash of cream.
split\If you and your boyfriend split, you are no longer together. If your pants split, they come open at the seam. If both of these happen in the same day, split! (Get out of here!)
spoil\When you spoil something, you destroy it or ruin its quality. If you spoil a surprise, you tell the secret you were supposed to keep.
sponge\A sponge has holes and soaks up liquid. One kind of sponge is a water-dwelling animal with a soft body and an asymmetrical shape. But the kind of sponge you use to clean the kitchen is usually man-made.
sponsor\A sponsor provides support for someone or something, typically by supplying cash. Because your company is a sponsor for a homeless organization, they provide funding for the annual 5K run to raise money for the shelter.
spontaneity\his application
spontaneous\Something spontaneous happens when you're least expecting it. Spontaneous things are natural or instinctive, and they happen without warning.
spot\A spot is a particular place or a small, round mark. You might pick a nice, shady spot in the woods for a picnic. But if you spot a better place by the lake, get moving!
sprawl\When you sprawl, you spread out in an ungainly way, like when you're lying down comfortably on the sofa with your legs and arms flung out around you.
spray\A spray is a jet of small drops of water or liquid vapor. It describes the medicine you use to make your nose less dry or the air freshener you use to make your bathroom less smelly.
spread\When something is spread, it's stretched or extended as far as it can go. It's a beautiful sight to see a bald eagle spread its wings and fly.
sprig\Spruce up your iced tea with a sprig of mint from the yard. A sprig is a cutting, stem, or small branch. A sprig is prettier than a twig because it often has leaves or flowers.
spring\There's nothing like sitting on a sharp tack to make you spring out of your chair. The verb spring means to leap or bounce up suddenly.
sprout\A sprout is a small growth on a plant — a little new bud. Other things can sprout too: kids are constantly sprouting (growing).
Spruce\Spruce is a verb that means you pay special attention to your personal appearance, especially your grooming and clothing. If you want to spruce up for a wedding, you'll need to rent a tuxedo and do something with your hair.
spun\When you spin, you whirl around in a circle. Many kids love to spin on a merry-go-round.
spur\To spur something on is to get it going, to encourage it, to hasten it or stimulate. Cowboys wear spiky metal tools called spurs on their boots to kick their horses and spur them to greater speed.
squalid\Squalid things appear neglected, or morally repulsive in nature, like a frat house after a semester of hard partying and zero cleanup.
square\A square is a figure with four equal sides and four right angles. It's a popular shape for windows and record albums, among many other things.
squash\A squash is the edible fruit of squash plant, but it's considered a vegetable in the kitchen, like peppers and tomatoes. As a verb, squash means to compress or mash — like the way your picky little sister might squash the roasted squash on her plate with a fork.
squeeze\his application
squid\A squid is a sea creature that's similar to an octopus but has ten arms instead of eight—including two extra tentacles they use for grabbing their prey. The largest squid ever found was nearly 60 feet long!
squirrel\Squirrels are rodents that live in trees and have big, bushy tails. You've probably seen many squirrels in the park eating acorns and seeds.
squirt\To squirt is to abruptly squeeze a liquid out of something. When you spend the day at the beach, you might squirt sunblock on your arms or squirt ketchup on the fries you bought at the snack bar.
stable\When something is stable, it's fixed and steady. If you needed advice, you'd probably go to your most stable friend, the one least likely to act crazy or be easily upset.
staccato\Staccato is a musical term for notes that are played quickly and sharply. It can also refer to anything characterized by similar beats, such as the staccato clacking of a woman's high heels on a tile floor.
stack\A stack is a tidy pile, like the stack of books on your nightstand or the stack of pancakes on your plate at breakfast. You can also use stack as a verb meaning "to arrange in piles."
stadium\A stadium is a large outdoor venue for sports or concerts. If you were a Roman emperor, you might've watched a chariot race at a stadium, but these days you're more likely to go to a stadium see a football game or your favorite band.
staff\his application
stage\A stage is a certain phase, like the toddler stage, when kids learn to walk and talk. Another kind of stage is a platform for a performance, although according to Shakespeare, “All the world's a stage.”
stagecoach\Before trains were invented, you might have taken a stagecoach to your Grandma's house. A stagecoach was a covered carriage pulled by horses.
staggered\Running a marathon is an impressive feat! Even though you had to stagger  — or walk unsteadily — across the finish line, you should be proud of your accomplishment.
staggering\A staggering amount is an astonishing, astounding, stupefying amount. Anything staggering blows your mind.
stain\A stain is a mark or discoloration, and to stain something is to mark it with dirt or color it, either deliberately or accidentally. If you stain your sister's favorite sweatshirt, she might be mad at you—especially if you didn't ask before borrowing it.
stake\A stake is a wooden stick, sharpened on one end and used to mark property lines (or slay a vampire).
stalk\A stalk is a long, vertical stem or connecting part of a plant. When you eat celery, do you like the inner stalks, which are paler and more tender, or the tough outer ones?
standard\A standard is an ideal or set of criteria that you use to judge things against. Colleges have certain standards for applicants, like a minimum SAT score or an above average grade point average.
staple\Bread. Milk. Gasoline. Xboxes. What do these all have in common? They're all a staple of most people's consumption — basic products for which there will always be a demand.
starch\Starch is the stuff that makes your shirt collar look crisp and fresh. It's also the complex carbohydrate that potatoes and rice — foods that are called starches — have lots of.
stark\Stark means "complete or extreme," like the stark contrast between your music taste — punk and weird metal — and your mom's, with all her 1950's doo-wop favorites.
startling\Something that's startling is so unexpected that it shocks or surprises you. It would be startling to open your front door and see a clown standing there.
stash\When you stash something, you stow it away to use it later. Your little brother might stash his Halloween candy under his bed, for example.
state\his application
statesman\a man who is a respected leader in national or international affairs
static\Static means not moving or changing––it's often used to describe abstract ideas that can't be seen. "The troops were moving all over the country, engaged in skirmishes, but the army's overall position remained static."
station\A station is a regular stopping place, like a bus station, a train station, or even a radio station.
stationary\Stationary means not moving. A stationary bike is the kind you find in the gym –– you pedal and pedal, but you just don’t go anywhere.
statistic\A statistic is a numerical piece of information. If you are trying to prove a point, and you want your argument to have a sense of authority, you might want to use a statistic to back up your claim.
statistical\If you can say it with numbers, then it is probably statistical. Statistical information (or "stats") can tell the chance of rain tomorrow or what percentage or your allowance gets spent on texting.
statuary\adjof or relating to or suitable for statues
statue\To stand as still as a statue is to stand absolutely still, a statue being a sculpture, after all. A statue is a specific kind of sculpture, one that clearly represents a person, an animal, or other living creature.
stature\Stature can refer to a person's height or the high level of respect with which she is regarded. Your grandmother might be small in stature, or height, but have great stature, or esteem, in her community.
status\If someone wants to know the status of something, they want to know what condition it's in, where it is, or how much progress it's made. You've probably checked the status of your flight to see if it's on time or delayed.
steady\The adjective steady describes something that is firmly fixed in position. If you have to climb up on your roof, you definitely want to have a steady ladder. Otherwise, you risk ending up in the bushes instead of on the roof.
steep\Steep means sharply angled. When hiking trails lead straight up mountainsides, they've got a steep incline. Steep also means "to soak in," as in steeping a tea bag in boiling water.
steer\In defining steer, I would steer clear of complicated examples and just say: to steer is to control which direction one is going.
stellar\Meaning outstanding, wonderful, better than everything else, stellar is a word of praise or excitement. Thomas Edison invented many things, but his stellar achievement might have been the light bulb.
stem\A stem is a plant's stalk, and it's also a verb meaning "grow out of." So roses have stems, and your idea to give roses to your mom for her birthday stems from her love of flowers.
stereo\A sound system with speakers that makes music seem to come from several directions at once—almost like it's all around you—is called a stereo. Your older brother should have set aside some money for food and rent instead of blowing his whole paycheck on a new stereo system.
sterile\A sterile person can't have kids, and a sterile environment is bland and boring. In both cases, sterile means lifeless.
stew\To stew is to slowly cook food, which results in a soup-like food called a stew. To stew also means to brood angrily.
stick\A stick is either a short length of wood—part of a tree branch—or an implement made of wood, like a hockey stick, a walking stick, or the sticks you use to play a drum.
stiff\Stiff things don’t bend or move easily. Dead bodies and tree branches are often stiff, and your back might feel stiff if you sit for too long. But to stiff the wait staff is to skip the tip. Bad idea.
stimulate\If the economy is starting to stall, the president can't just sit there. He has to stimulate—turn it on, bring it to life, perk it up. You can stimulate practically anything: a person, a conversation, a mind, or even the growth of a plant.
sting\Sting most commonly refers to the wound inflicted by a bee or hornet, or to a kind of burning pain, like the brief sting when your doctor gives you a vaccine. A nasty remark can also sting.
stinginess\a lack of generosity; a general unwillingness to part with money
stir\To stir is to mix something up. You can literally stir cake batter with a spoon, or figuratively stir someone's emotions by writing them a heartfelt letter.
stock\Stock is collective noun for the stuff a store or a company has to sell, be it toilet paper, automobiles or clothing. Many stores close once a year for a few days to do an inventory of their stock.
stocking\the activity of supplying a stock of something
stodgy\The Queen's guards outside Buckingham Palace might seem stodgy (or stuffy and stuck-up), but they are only doing their job.
stonewall\To stonewall is to deliberately hold something up or delay it, especially by refusing to cooperate or answer questions. A big company might stonewall when its workers try to negotiate for higher pay — and your parents might stonewall when you try to negotiate for a higher allowance.
storage\Storage refers to storing something, like in a basement or attic. People keep all sorts of things in storage — from fur coats to bowling trophies.
store\As the sentence "This store stores a large store of rubber ducks" will tell you, store is a word with a lot of definitions. Among these are "a place that sells items," "the act of keeping things for future use," and "a supply of something."
stout\Stout describes something fat, dependable, or rugged. If someone calls you stout, ask them exactly what they mean before bursting into tears and skipping dinner. It could be a compliment!
strain\The noun strain is a stretch, effort, or exertion. You can strain your ankle, or your little brother can strain your patience.
strand\A single hair, a noodle, even a line of thought — any of these things could be called a strand, a long thin length of something.
strap\A strip of material used to hold something in place is a strap, like your bathing suit's shoulder straps, the strap on your book bag, or the strap of your seatbelt.
strategy\In the game of capture-the-flag, running toward your flag screaming is not a good strategy. A strategy is any plan you make to achieve a goal.
stratum\A stratum is a layer of something, whether abstract, like a social stratum composed of only billionaires, or physical, like the different strata (that’s the plural version) of clouds that an airplane passes through.
stream\That little rolling brook in your back yard is a stream. If it starts rising and threatens to flood, your father might let out a stream of expletives. A stream is a steady flow of something.
stress\The word stress is about pressure, whether it's pressure on a syllable of a word (TRAIN-er versus train-EE), an object (the bridge is designed to handle the stress of the cars), or a person (I am under a lot of stress).
stretch\To stretch is to extend or lengthen something beyond the normal length. You stretched both your vacation and the truth when you called out of work on Monday saying your flight home from Ibiza was canceled.
strict\Strict describes someone who sticks to a particular set of rules. If your math teacher is strict, it means that she expects her rules to be followed to the letter.
stricture\One meaning of stricture is a nasty criticism, while the other is a sharp contraction of a tube or canal in the body. Either meaning can mean great pain to the person experiencing the stricture.
stride\The noun stride means "significant progress." You might make a huge stride towards making peace with the rival school by hosting a block party and inviting their students.
strike\At its most basic, strike means to hit. If you strike someone, you hit them with your hand or a weapon. If lightning strikes, it makes contact. If you strike out on a trip, you're "hitting" the road. If you strike gold, you've "struck it rich"!
string\A string is a strand of fiber that's thinner than a cord or a rope. You can tie on a Halloween mask with a string, or weave a friendship bracelet with a bunch of colorful strings.
strip\The verb strip has many shades of meaning, but most of them involve removing something. Someone may strip you of your power or you may strip off your clothes. Whatever it is that you strip, it’s gone.
stripe\a narrow marking of a different color or texture from the background
strive\To strive is to endeavor, reach, or strain for something above or beyond. We strive for self-improvement, a better world, or success in general.
stroke\It's a stroke of luck, or chance event, to find a terrific parking space on a rainy day, but no one feels lucky when their grandfather has a stroke, a sudden debilitating loss of oxygen to the brain.
strut\When you strut, you walk with a proud swagger that has a little arrogance thrown in, like the prance of a running back who has just flown past the 250-pound linebackers and planted the ball in the end zone.
studio\A studio is a room or space where an artist either teaches classes or does their work. If you make pottery, you might dream of one day having a studio in your back yard.
stun\To stun is to knock unconscious or to shock. So getting hit in the head with a softball will stun you, but hearing that your favorite band is playing at the prom will also stun you.
stunt\To stunt is to slow or hinder. Some people say that drinking coffee will stunt your growth when you're a teenager — they worry that you won't grow any taller.
sturdy\his application
stylish\A stylish person is someone who has a bold sense of fashion, like a queen with flowing robes and gowns, or your friend who always wears the best-looking jeans.
stylistic\adjof or relating to style (especially in the use of language)
stylized\If something is stylized it means it's represented in a non-naturalistic conventional form. The heart-shaped symbol in the popular phrase "I heart NY," for example, is a classic stylized representation of a real heart.
subdue\To subdue is to hold back, put down, or defeat. A Doberman can be subdued with a bone, but subduing a yapping toy poodle can be a mail carrier's greatest daily challenge.
subject\Subject can mean "topic," as in "Let's change the subject." It can also mean "to make someone do something," as in "Don't let your dad subject you to an hour-long lecture on fishing." It can also mean everyone in a country who is not the ruler, as in "The king greeted his subjects when he returned from abroad."
submarine\If you're in the Navy, a submarine is a military ship that goes under the water. If you're hungry, it's a type of sandwich.
submerge\When you go swimming, you submerge your body in water. If your head is out of the water, it is not submerged — it's just wet.
submit\To submit to something means to undergo or accept it. You must submit to a search if the police have a warrant.
subscribe\If you subscribe to something, you sign up to receive it regularly. If you subscribe to the New York Times, it's delivered to your door every morning or you get online access.
subsequent\For something that comes after something else in time or order, choose the adjective subsequent. If the entire class fails an exam, the teacher will hopefully make subsequent ones a little easier.
subsidize\To subsidize something is to support it by providing it with money or other resources. Don't expect your parents to subsidize your addiction to solid-gold puppy figurines.
subsidy\A subsidy is a grant of financial assistance. Many school districts, for example, offer a subsidy to low-income families for book fees and lunch costs. The family pays a set amount and the district makes up the difference.
subsist\When you subsist, you keep yourself alive. Since most airlines have stopped serving food, many travelers are forced to subsist on little packets of pretzels, even on long flights.
subspecies\(biology) a taxonomic group that is a division of a species; usually arises as a consequence of geographical isolation within a species
substance\Any material that possesses physical properties is called a substance. The word also refers to the gist or main idea of something. If you remember the main point of a lesson, you've got the substance.
substantial\Something substantial is large in size, number, or amount: If you want to say someone spent a lot of money without being too specific, you could say they spent a substantial amount of money.
substantiate\To substantiate is to give support to a claim. We’d really like to believe in the Tooth Fairy; however, more evidence is needed to substantiate her existence (besides that quarter in your pocket).
substitute\Something or someone that takes the place of another is said to be a substitute. You may be sent into a game as a substitute for an injured player, or you might substitute chocolate chips for blueberries in a pancake recipe.
subtle\Something that is subtle is not obvious: a professional food taster might be able to perceive subtle differences of flavor that most people don't notice.
subtract\In math, when you subtract, you take one number away from another. If you subtract four from ten, you're left with six. You can also use subtract to mean "take away" in a more general sense, as in "If you subtract some of the salt from the recipe, the pasta will be healthier."
suburb\A suburb is a residential district located on the outskirts of a city. If you live in the suburbs, you probably travel to the city for work.
subway\An underground transportation system on rails is called a subway. New York City's subway system has more stations than any other subway in the world.
successive\Successive is a word for things (or people) that follow each other in time. If three presidents in a row were over sixty, you could say, "Three successive presidents were over sixty."
successor\If you are successor to the throne, that means you're next in line when the current royal has to step down. The successor takes over when someone gives up a position or title or when something becomes outdated.
sue\If you sue someone, you're accusing them (in court) of doing something wrong or illegal and demanding that they pay for it. Almost every time someone sues, they're looking for money.
sufficient\If you have a sufficient amount of something, it's enough — not too much, not too little, just right. Goldilocks would be pleased.
suffocation\the condition of being deprived of oxygen (as by having breathing stopped)
suffragist\Before 1920, women did not have the right to vote in the U.S. The suffragist movement fought for these rights, and the people who were part of that movement were suffragists.
suitcase\A suitcase is a piece of luggage that usually has a handle. If you're going on a week-long vacation, you should probably pack a suitcase to bring with you. Don't forget your toothbrush!
sulfur\his application
sum\When you determine the sum, you add up all the numbers. When you sum something up, you focus on all of its important points.
summarily\advwithout delay; in a summary manner
summary\A summary gives a short overview, or the main points, of something longer. She talked for days about the 800-page romantic novel, but her boyfriend's summary was "Girl meets boy, boy meets girl, boy rides horse into sunset, girl meets new boy. The end."
summit\What better place for the mountain-climbing summit than on the summit of the mountain. A summit can mean either a meeting between people who are interested in the same subject or the peak of the mountain.
sunlit\adjlighted by sunlight
sunset\the time in the evening at which the sun begins to fall below the horizon
superficial\Anything superficial has to do with the surface of something. If you're judging a book by its cover, you're being superficial. People who worry too much about their clothes and hair may also be considered superficial.
superintendent\A superintendent is the overseer of an organization. The term superintendent is most often used to refer to someone who oversees a school district and — most importantly — decides when to declare a snow day.
superior\The salesman boasted to his customer that the $1 million car was well worth the price because it was far superior, meaning of higher quality, to any car that had come before it. This car, the salesman bragged, could fly.
supervise\If your mother asks you to supervise your little brother and his friends, it means she'd like you to keep an eye on them.
supplant\Kate was out sick for a month with mono, and when she came back to school, Jessie had supplanted her as the funny girl at the lunch table. Supplant means to take the place of.
supplement\his application
supply\To supply the definition of a word is to provide that definition. That's supply used as a verb. If you're talking about the noun, however, then the supply is the thing itself.
suppose\If you suppose you love your girlfriend, you may not be too sure. Suppose means to guess, or think, or imagine something without absolute certainty. Best hold off on the engagement ring until you know for sure!
suppress\To suppress something means to curb, inhibit, or even stop it. If the sound of your boss moving in his chair sounds like gas, you’re going to have to learn how to suppress your giggles.
supreme\If you are the greatest, the most powerful, and the highest, you are supreme.
surge\A surge is a sudden strong swelling, like a tsunami wave that engulfs the land. Although a surge offers a fluid image, anything can experience a sudden surge, including emotions, political support, or an angry mob.
surgeon\A surgeon is a kind of doctor who treats his patients by using his hands, often by performing surgery. If you're comfortable slicing into a person's body to remove an appendix, then you might make a decent surgeon.
surpass\To surpass means to outdo someone or something, to go beyond what was expected. If you do better than you think you will, you will surpass your own expectations.
surplus\his application
surrender\To surrender is to give up control of something to someone else. If you miss curfew, your parents might make you surrender the keys to the car. Okay, it's only a minivan, but it's still cooler than being on foot patrol.
survey\his application
survive\To survive something is to live through it or endure it. You can survive a car accident, or you can survive your little brother's four-hour violin recital.
susceptible\If you are susceptible to something such as infections or earaches, it means you are likely to become sick with these things.
suspect\A suspect is a person who is believed to be guilty of a crime. If you leave the scene of a murder with blood on your hands and a weapon in your pocket, you’re likely to become a prime suspect.
suspend\You can use the verb suspend any time you need to stop something. Whether it’s your judgment, a rule, or bus service, when you suspend it, you temporarily bring it to a halt.
suspension\A suspension is a temporary stoppage. If you receive one in school, you temporarily can't attend classes and if the referee gives you one, you have to sit out for the rest of the game.
sustain\Sustain means to support something or keep it going. If you get hungry in the mid-afternoon, you might try snacking to sustain your energy through dinner.
sustained\Something that's sustained is held or maintained for a long time, keeping its strength or level consistent and unbroken. A singer's sustained note goes on and on, and a judge's sustained ruling continues to be upheld.
sustenance\Sustenance comes from the word sustain, which means to continue. Sustenance is food or drink that allows you to continue to be alive. For many, prayer is a source of spiritual sustenance.
susurration\The delicate-sounding word susurration comes by its gentleness naturally — it’s a very soft whispering sound that can barely be heard.
swallow\When you swallow food or liquid is pushed from your mouth to the esophagus. Chew your food well before you swallow it.
swamp\A swamp is an area that floods every year because the land is low. Watch out for alligators if you visit  Atchafalaya National Wildlife Refuge in Louisiana, the largest swamp in the United States.
swan\In "The Ugly Duckling," a young bird is mistaken for a duck until it grows up to be a beautiful swan. A swan is a large bird with a long, elegant neck.
swarm\his application
swear\When you take an oath about something, you swear to it, affirming its truth. Ironically, if you utter an oath, such as a curse word or obscenity, you also swear.  Do you swear to put a quarter in this jar for every time you swear?
sweat\Sweat is perspiration that makes you feel cooler when it evaporates off the surface of your skin — or the giving-off of this liquid. If you exercise hard, you will sweat.
sweep\When you use a broom to clean the floor, you sweep. You also sweep when you move in a smooth, confident way, like when you sweep onto the dance floor in a dazzling new outfit.
sweeping\Something that's sweeping is wide-ranging or thorough. A political candidate might campaign on promises to bring sweeping change to a country.
swell\To swell is to expand or grow larger. If your brother's face started to swell after he ate lobster for the first time, you'd probably guess that he's allergic to shellfish.
swift\If you were the first one to reach the finish line in gym class, the coach might have called you swift. Swift means quick or fast-moving. A glance, a current, even a decision can be swift.
swing\To swing is to sway back and forth, or to move in a sweeping, curving motion. Wind chimes swing in the breeze, and a softball player swings her bat, aiming for the ball.
Swiss\adjof or relating to Switzerland or its people or culture
switch\If you and your friend are seated separately on an airplane, you can always ask a stranger if they will switch seats with you. To switch is to change or exchange.
syllable\A syllable can be made up of just a vowel — "a" can be a syllable — or a vowel and one or more consonants — "skip" is one syllable, but three sounds, or phonemes: sk-i-p.
symbol\A symbol can be an object, shape, sign, or character used to represent something else. A flag is a symbol of a country. English teachers never tire of talking about symbols in literature.
symbolic\When one thing represents something else that's more abstract, it is symbolic, like a cowboy's black hat in western films is symbolic of his sinister intentions.
symmetry\Things that have symmetry are balanced, with each side reflecting the other. A human body has such complex symmetry, from eyes, ears, and nostrils to arms, legs, and feet, that even a minor injury can make a body look unbalanced.
sympathetic\A sympathetic person is one who's motivated by compassion. You can imagine that most of the people who work for the Red Cross are sympathetic types.
sympathy\Sympathy is a feeling of pity or sense of compassion — it's when you feel bad for someone else who's going through something hard.
symphony\A symphony is the name of a type of classical music (a long, complex sonata) and the large orchestra that plays that music.
symptom\A symptom is the result or byproduct of something else—specifically, the result we use to prove that that other thing exists. Simple example: a cough is a symptom of a cold. We know we have a cold because we have the symptom, a cough.
synonym\A synonym is a word that means the same thing as another word. If you replace a word in a sentence with its synonym, the meaning of the sentence won't really change that much.
synthesize\When you synthesize, you combine two or more things to create something more complex. It's becoming more common for doctors these days to synthesize Eastern and Western approaches to medicine.
synthetic\Something made of artificial material, not natural items, can be described as synthetic. Some football stadiums have synthetic grass, and a leisure suit from the 1970s might be made of synthetic fabric.
syrup\Syrup is the thick, sweet liquid you pour on your blueberry pancakes. Maple syrup is just one of many deliciously sticky types of syrup.
systematic\Systematic describes something that is planned out and careful. In your systematic search for your mother's car keys, you start in one room, looking everywhere from bottom to top before moving to the next room.
tabletennis\his application
tactic\Tactic is another word for a maneuver or method. If begging doesn't convince your parents to raise your allowance, you might want to try a different tactic—like doing all your chores without being asked.
tactics\Tactics are your carefully planned actions for attaining a certain goal. You'll have to come up with some clever tactics if you're going to figure out how to build the fastest race car and win the Girl Scout troop competition.
talent\If you are especially good at something, you have a talent. You can have a talent for singing or a talent for getting others to talk about themselves. People who work in creative professions are often called "the talent."
talisman\A talisman is a charm that is supposed to ward off evil or illness. Your rabbit's foot key chain may be your lucky talisman. Of course, it wasn't so lucky for that rabbit.
tally\A tally is a continuous count of something, like the number of words in a document, or the number of favors your best friend owes you. To tally is to add up, like keeping the score of a game.
tangle\A tangle is a jumble. You might have a tangle of cords behind your computer or a tangle of complications related to your taxes. Whatever it is, once something is in a tangle, it's difficult to sort out.
tariff\A tariff is a kind of tax on goods a country imports or exports. If you want to buy a European-made car in the U.S., the price will include tariffs the government adds to the price of imported vehicles.
tarnish\To tarnish is to become dull or discolored. Silver tends to tarnish easily, which is why your mother is always having you polish the family silver.
technique\A technique is a method of doing some task or performing something. Your technique for opening drinks might be to twist the top off with your teeth. If so, your dentist better have a good tooth-repair technique.
technological\The adjective technological describes something that’s based in science and applied to everyday life to solve problems. If you network your computers at home to make it easier to share files, you’re using your technological skills.
tectonics\the branch of geology studying the folding and faulting of the earth&#039;s crust
tedium\Tedium is the state of being really bored while doing something repetitive. You may loathe the tedium of eating dinner with the family — after all, what is more boring than talking to mom and dad, especially if you could be texting friends?
teem\If your neighborhood seems to teem with cats, that means there are a lot of cats running around. When something teems, it swarms or overflows with a large number of things.
telegraph\Forget about the internet! Before even the telephone was invented, the telegraph — a device used to communicate via electronic signals — was the main mode of communicating long distance. We've come a long way!
telescope\A telescope is an instrument that is used to view distant objects. If you want to look at the planets, you can use a telescope. The higher the magnification on the telescope, the better your view will be.
tellurian\adjof or relating to or inhabiting the land as opposed to the sea or air
temperate\Temperate means mild, moderate. If you're a temperate person, you are calm, reasonable. If you live in a temperate climate, it's warm and sunny, but not too hot.
temporary\Use the adjective temporary to describe something that is not permanent. "Oh my goodness! That's a tattoo," your mother might shriek. You might tell her not to worry, since it's only temporary, and will wear off in a few days.
tenant\A tenant is someone who lives in a place owned by someone else, usually paying rent. If you blast your music and let the cat pee in the corner, your landlord will not think that you're a very good tenant.
tendency\A tendency is an inclination to do something. For example, dogs have a tendency to bark at strangers and the mail man.
tendon\If you feel the back of your ankle, you will find the tough, ropelike tendon that joins your calf muscle to your heel bone. That's the job of tendons throughout your body: connecting bone and muscle so you can move.
tenement\A tenement is a run-down apartment building. The tenements in Old New York were barely safe enough to live in — fire hazards, no air circulation, and no bathrooms, either.
tension\When things feel so tight they might snap, that's tension.  If you buy your girlfriend a vacuum cleaner when she wanted diamonds, you will experience tension. Just before she storms out of the room.
tentacle\A tentacle is long, ropey thing that sticks out of an animal’s face.  You probably think they’re gross. Octopuses probably think they’re cute.
tenuous\If something is tenuous it's thin, either literally or metaphorically. If you try to learn a complicated mathematical concept by cramming for 45 minutes, you will have a tenuous grasp of that concept, at best.
terminal\Terminal is a word with many meanings. Depending on how it's used, it can describe a place where passengers end their journey, a computer screen and keyboard, or a life-ending disease.
terminology\Terminology is vocabulary associated with a certain field of study, profession, or activity. Knowing the terminology is an important part of being able to work in a given profession.
termite\A termite is a tiny insect that can cause big problems. Termites eat wood, and they can severely damage buildings. If you have termites in your house, you'd better call an exterminator.
terrain\An ATV, or all-terrain vehicle, is useful for people who drive on lots of different terrain, hence the name. Terrain is a noun used to talk about the ground, when you're specifically interested in how it appears or is shaped.
terrestrial\Not straying far from its Latin root terra, meaning "earth," terrestrial means "of the earth." If it's terrestrial, you'll find it on earth. If it's extraterrestrial, you'll find it emerging from a UFO.
territory\A certain area that's owned or under the control of someone is called a territory. Countries defend their territories during wars and dogs mark their territory in the yard by peeing on it.
testimony\When you give testimony you are telling what you saw or what you know.  Your testimony that your hand was not in the cookie jar goes against the testimony of several eyewitnesses.
textile\A textile is something made by knitting, weaving, or crocheting fibers together. A textile is a cloth. You’re probably wearing a textile right now!
texture\Texture is the physical feel of something — smooth, rough, fuzzy, slimy, and lots of textures something in between.
thane\The noun thane is good for describing a man who owned land back in feudal times. Maybe your distant ancestor was a thane who served an Anglo-Saxon king.
thaw\When things thaw, they're coming out of deep freeze and warming up. You can thaw a chicken, and a chilly friendship can thaw too.
the pacific islands\his application
theme\A theme can be an underlying topic of a discussion or a recurring idea in an artistic work. Anxiety about getting married is a big theme in romantic comedies.
theoretical\Something theoretical is concerned with theories and hypotheses — it's not necessarily based on real life or meant to be applied to real life.
therapy\Therapy is the act of caring for someone, or the method of caring. If you have a rare disease, your doctor's therapy will hopefully cure you.
thorn\A thorn is a sharp spike that protrudes from the stem of a plant. Roses are famous for having the sweetest fragrance and the sharpest thorns.
thorough\Thorough describes something that is painstakingly complete, like a thorough search for your missing keys in which you look for them in coat pockets, under the table, in the refrigerator — in every single place you can think of.
thrall\When you're in thrall to someone, you are under their control in some way. If you're being held as a hostage, you're in thrall to your captor.
thralldom\the state of being under the control of another person
thrifty\Being thrifty means being careful of your money and how you spend it. Think twice before you spend, but if you must shop, hitting the sales and using coupons are good ways to be thrifty.
thrive\To thrive is to do well or flourish. If your new cookie delivery business thrives, you'll be rolling in dough — not literally, of course.
thwart\A villain's worst nightmare is the superhero who always seems to thwart his efforts, preventing him from carrying out his plans to take over the world.
tile\A tile is a flat piece of material that's used to cover a roof, floor, or wall. If you're artistic, you can make a mosaic out of small, colorful glass tiles.
timber\Timber! That's the call of warning you hear before a tree falls. That's because those lumberjacks are going to use the tree to make timber, otherwise known as "lumber" or the wood used for construction.
timid\Timid means "overly cautious or fearful," like a timid driver who drives very slowly or avoids highways altogether.
timidity\Do you suffer from timidity? If so, you probably feel uneasy in new places and situations. You might fear having to make decisions. But as you get more comfortable, your timidity will go away.
tingling\a somatic sensation as from many tiny prickles
tissue\Tissue is part of the body of a living thing that is made of similar cells, like the cardiac tissue of your heart. A tissue is also a soft, thin piece of paper used for wiping noses and tear drops.
titillate\A juicy steak may titillate your taste buds, or sexy images in a foreign film may titillate your desire. Titillate means to excite someone's imagination, especially in a sexual way.
title\A title is typically the official part of your name, placed at the beginning to signify a certain status or function. So, do you prefer "Mr.," "Mrs.," "Dr." or "Ms"? Or perhaps you just go by "Grand Pooh-bah"?
tobacco\Tobacco refers to the leaves of the tobacco plant that have been dried and processed for people to roll up and smoke. Tobacco is the main ingredient in cigarettes, and of course, chewing tobacco.
tolerant\If you're tolerant it means that you accept people who are unlike you or put up with stuff you don't like.  If you let your roommate play the same awful '80s mix over and over and don't say anything, you're probably a very tolerant person.
tolerate\The verb tolerate means "to put up with or allow." You can tolerate your sister's love of Broadway musicals but really, you prefer dramas.
ton\The ton is a unit of measurement. In North America, a ton is 2,000 pounds. Elephants weigh several tons — and blue whales can weigh up to 200 tons!
topographical map\his application
topography\Topography is a detailed map of the surface features of land. It includes the mountains, hills, creeks, and other bumps and lumps on a particular hunk of earth.
topsoil\the layer of soil on the surface
tornado\A tornado is a violent windstorm in the shape of a funnel cloud that reaches to the ground. If a tornado is coming, you’ll want to take cover.
torrent\A torrent is a heavy rain, or the flooding or wildly-running streams it causes, like the torrent that soaks everyone unlucky enough to be out on the street at that moment.
tournament\A tournament refers to a gathering of competitors playing a series of games. There are chess tournaments, golf tournaments, tennis tournaments, and  a number of tournaments titled “Tournament of Champions.”
tow\To tow something is to drag or pull it, the way a truck will tow your car away if you park it illegally.
towering\Towering things are extremely tall, like the towering skyscrapers in New York City or the towering redwoods in northern California.
toxic\Danger! Hazardous! Do not eat! These are just some of the warnings you'll see on toxic substances — meaning stuff that's poisonous and even deadly.
trace\A trace of something is just a hint or suggestion of it, a very small amount left behind — like the sad cookie crumbs at the bottom of an empty cookie jar.
tract\A tract is a large, open piece of land — like that tract of farmland you bought when you decided your dream in life was to raise llamas. Tract is also a word for a short pamphlet or booklet, like that tract you recently read entitled "The Care and Feeding of Llamas."
tragedy\Tragedy is a noun that indicates disaster or bad fortune. It would be a tragedy to lose your job, but an even greater tragedy to fall ill while unemployed and without health care.
tragic\Tragic means sad on a grand scale. Rain on your parade? Sad. Weeks of rain leading to the destruction of a small town and the lives of those in it? Tragic.
train\To train means to teach a skill. If you train your cat to use the toilet, your family will be amazed.
trait\A trait is something about you that makes you "you." When your mother says that you get all your best traits from her, she means you have the same charming smile and the same brilliant mind as she has.
transcend\It would be nice to transcend the narrow limits of this brief definition, and go to greater lengths to describe this word's glories! Transcend means to move upward and beyond something.
transfer\If you are moving something from one place to another, like transferring money from your savings account to your checking account, you are transferring it. Or, if you've been moved from one job site to another — you, my friend, have been transferred.
transform\When you transform you change from one thing or state to another. Picture a transformer that changes from a robot to a car. Simple, right?
transit\Transit means “journey,” and saying you’re "in transit" means you’re on your way somewhere. Before we had cell phones, one of the upsides of being in transit was that no one could get in touch with you.
transition\A transition is a change from one thing to the next, either in action or state of being—as in a job transition or as in the much more dramatic example of a caterpillar making a transition into a butterfly.
translucent\A translucent material lets light pass through, but objects on the other side can't be seen clearly. Think Shrinky Dinks or stained glass.
transmit\If you’re an international spy, you might transmit secret messages using a special code written in invisible ink. If you aren’t a spy, you could probably just use email. Whatever your circumstances, when you transmit information, you send.
transparent\You can see right through something transparent. A window is transparent, but so are the intentions of a Peeping Tom looking through that window.
transplant\his application
transponder\A transponder is a communication device that can either send or receive signals (or both). With a special transponder in your car, you can drive slowly through a tollbooth as your toll is collected electronically.
transude\vrelease (a liquid) in drops or small quantities
trash\Trash is rubbish or garbage — it's the stuff that gets thrown away. Your town might organize a clean-up day each year when people pick up trash in parks and neighborhoods.
travesty\A travesty is a cheap mockery, usually of something or someone serious, such as a travesty of justice.
tread\When you tread on the earth, you walk on it. The next time your pal thinks you have it too easy, you might ask him, “Why don’t you tread in my shoes for a day?”
tremendous\Tremendous means extraordinarily large in size, extent, amount, power, or degree. It can also mean really marvelous and fantastic — or really awful and terrible.
trench\A trench is a deep and narrow hole, or ditch, in the ground, like the kind soldiers on frontlines might dig to give themselves shelter from the enemy.
trend\A trend is what's hip or popular at a certain point in time. While a trend usually refers to a certain style in fashion or entertainment, there could be a trend toward warmer temperatures (if people are following trends associated with global warming).
triangle\A triangle is a flat shape with three sides and three angles, like a slice of pizza, a yield sign, or the Greek letter Delta. If you look carefully, you'll notice triangles all around you!
tribal\Tribal things have something to do with a group or tribe, like Native Americans' tribal land, where certain tribes lived for thousands of years.
tributary\his application
trigger\A trigger is a metal lever that when pulled discharges a gun. You shoot the gun by pulling the trigger. Trigger can also mean the start of a process––violent protests might trigger a revolution.
trivial\Something that is trivial is not important or significant, such as the trivial details you shared with me about your trip to the post office this morning.
trojan\a program that appears desirable but actually contains something harmful
tropic\either of two parallels of latitude about 23.5 degrees to the north and south of the equator representing the points farthest north and south at which the sun can shine directly overhead and constituting the boundaries of the Torrid Zone or tropics
troupe\You can call a group of performers a troupe. The kids you dance with are your dance troupe, and the jugglers and clowns at your friend's party might be a circus troupe.
tube\A tube is a pipe shape, a cylinder with a hollow space inside. If you're like most people, you sip your milkshake through a straw — a long, plastic tube.
tug\To tug is to forcefully pull or drag something. You might need your sister's help to tug your knee-high boots off at the end of a long day.
tuition\Tuition is a fee paid for instruction or teaching, usually for higher education. Many students need to get part-time jobs to pay their college tuition.
tundra\The tundra is a vast treeless plain near the Arctic Circle where the subsoil is permanently frozen. Despite the stark cold, many animals thrive on the tundra, including insects, migrating birds, and foxes.
tunnel\A tunnel is a passage that runs underground or through something, like a train tunnel that cuts through a mountain. Some theme parks have networks of underground tunnels so that employees can move around out of sight of visitors.
turbulent\Turbulent means chaotic, disordered, characterized by conflict. A time of war is a turbulent time for a country. If your family moves and your parents get divorced, you might call that a turbulent period in your history.
turkey\A turkey is a big bird that looks a bit like a huge chicken. If you've ever celebrated Thanksgiving in the U.S. or Canada, you've probably seen the large fowl turkey cooked and taking center stage at the elaborate holiday meal.
turningn\his application
turnpike\A turnpike is a busy road that charges users a fee to drive on it. If you drive through a toll booth, you know you're on a turnpike.
turtle\his application
tutor\A tutor is someone who gives private instruction: tutors teach one-on-one.
Tuxedo Park\his application
twenty-first\adjcoming next after the twentieth in position
twig\a small branch or division of a branch (especially a terminal division); usually applied to branches of the current or preceding year
twine\Twine is the strong braided string that's often tied around a bakery box or used to secure a Christmas tree to the top of your car.
twinkling\The adjective twinkling refers to light that appears sporadically bright and then faint. When the light from stars is twinkling, it may look as if they're winking at you.
twist\When you twist something, you turn it in a different direction. You might twist off a bottle cap, or you might even twist the plot of a story you are writing.
tycoon\If you are meeting with someone who is considered a tycoon in his industry, keep in mind that he is very successful and probably accustomed to high-stakes negotiations.
type\A type is a specific category of things or people that have something in common. Your favorite type of candy might be dark chocolate, while your brother's favorite type is jelly beans.
tyrant\If you accuse your parents of being tyrants, you are saying they abuse their control of you — they are cruel, overly restrictive of your freedoms, and unfair. A tyrant is a ruler who is cruel and unjust.
ultimate\The last in a series can be described as the ultimate. A cheeky kid, when asked what she wants to be when she grows up, might say, "I want to be an actress, a singer, and a veterinarian, but my ultimate goal is to be President of the United States."
ultimately\Ultimately means "at the very end of the process." Your strategy of robbing banks with a water gun worked a few times, but ultimately it was unsuccessful.
ultimatum\An ultimatum is a final demand attached to a threat, like "If you don't do it, I'll never speak to you again." Ultimatums are serious business.
ultraviolet\Use the adjective ultraviolet to describe light with a wavelength that's less than visible light, but longer than x-rays. You can't see ultraviolet light.
un\his application
unaided\Anything that's unaided is done without any help. When a child tries to make dessert by himself, he may make an unaided attempt at baking cookies.
unconsolidated\adjloose and unstratified
undergo\Undergo means "endure until something is complete." You might undergo testing to check your hearing or undergo special training if you want to volunteer at a homeless shelter.
underlie\While it’s true that when something underlies something else, it is beneath it, this does not necessarily mean subservience — it can also indicate a strong foundation or bedrock that underlies, or supports, an idea or decision.
underlying\The obvious meaning of underlying refers to something beneath something else. But the word carries a more subtle meaning, that of something hidden but important, something that shapes the meaning or effect of something else, without being explicit itself.
underneath\advon the lower or downward side; on the underside of
underscore\To underscore is to draw special attention to a fact, idea, or situation. When you're involved in a debate, it’s wise to underscore the points that best support your argument.
undertake\his application
undiminished\When something is not lessened, it is undiminished. You might be hoping that the pain in your ankle will go away but find that even after a day of rest the pain is undiminished. Probably time to see a doctor.
unearth\To unearth something is to dig it up. You could unearth a coffin, or even a tee shirt buried in the bottom of a drawer.
uneven\Uneven is the opposite of uniform and predictable. If the road is uneven, it's bumpy and rough, and you’ll have to dodge the potholes.
unexceptionable\If something is unexceptionable, don't bother trying to find something wrong with it — you won't. Your unexceptionable character makes you the perfect candidate to run for public office, but if you run, people will be looking for things to criticize.
unfair\If something's unfair, it's not just or equitable. If your brother carelessly broke your mother's favorite vase, it would be unfair for her to punish both of you.
uniform\Uniform means the same. If your school has a uniform it means all the kids wear the same clothes. If you are told to make your handwriting uniform, they want your letters to be the same shape and size over and over.
unify\When you bring together unlike elements, you unify them. Political movements can unify people by inspiring them to work towards a shared goal. Likewise, a shared love of a team or band can unify people who otherwise don't have much in common.
unique\If something is unique, it's the only one around. You might think getting a nose ring would make you unique, until you see five other people on the street with the same piercing.
unity\Unity is being together or at one with someone or something. It's the opposite of being divided.
universe\Universe is a big word — in fact, it includes all matter and all of space.
unparalleled\If something's unparalleled, there's never been anything like it — such as a brilliant musical performance or a record-breaking time for an athlete.
unprecedented\Something that is unprecedented is not known, experienced, or done before. If you've never gone on a family beach vacation but you're planning one now, you could refer to it as an unprecedented decision.
unpredictable\When something's unpredictable, it doesn't happen at expected times or it can't be predicted. If trains were unpredictable, they wouldn't follow a set schedule and you'd never know when one would arrive.
unravel\However tempting, don't pull that straggly thread hanging from your sleeve. You'll just unravel, or totally undo, your hand-knitted sweater.
unsafe\adjlacking in security or safety
unsound\adjnot in good condition; damaged or decayed
unsubstantiated\his application
unsung\adjhaving value that is not acknowledged
untamed\adjin a natural state; not tamed or domesticated or cultivated
untapped\adjnot drawn upon or used
untrammeled\Something that's untrammeled is completely free and unrestricted. If you live a truly untrammeled life, you feel free to follow your dreams.
unusual\Something unusual is uncommon. It's odd, weird, or out of the ordinary in some way.
upheaval\Upheaval means a violent or sudden change. You might talk about an upheaval in government following an election where many incumbents are replaced.
uppermost\adjat or nearest to the top
upstage\To upstage is to steal the show. If you try to upstage your Grease costar, you'll attempt to pull the audience's attention away from him and onto you at the back of the stage doing cartwheels.
urban\Use the adjective urban to refer to cities or people who live in cities. It carries a suggestion of grittiness––urban style involves darker colors.
urbane\Urbane people are sophisticated, polished, cultured, refined. Spend enough time in an urban setting–-going to concerts and museums, spending time in crowds––and you'll be urbane too.
urge\If you have an urge to eat candy, you really want to eat those sweets. Your mother might urge you to wait until after dinner. As a noun, urge means a desire. As a verb, it means to strongly encourage.
utensil\A utensil is a tool you can hold in your hand and use around the house. In the kitchen, common utensils are the knives, forks, and spoons that we hold in our hands and use to eat.
utilitarian\The adjective utilitarian describes something that is useful or functional. If you are attracted to a car for its storage space and gas mileage — as opposed to its sparkly tire rims — then chances are you value a car's utilitarian features.
utility\his application
utilize\To utilize is to use what you have or what's available, and it's a three-syllable word meaning the same thing as the one-syllable "use."
utmost\Utmost means "the greatest extent or amount." When you work as hard as you possibly can, you do your utmost to accomplish your goal.
utter\The adjective utter is often used as an intensifier to mean "total" — often with negative connotations (like "utter failure"). As a verb, the word has a totally unrelated meaning: to speak or to articulate a sound.
vacant\You can use the adjective vacant to describe something that is empty — an apartment with no tenant or furniture, a job with no worker, or a person with no brainpower.
vacate\If someone asks you to vacate the room, you'd better pack up your things and go. When you vacate something, you leave it behind, usually empty.
vaccine\To prevent you from getting sick, a doctor will give you a shot with a vaccine in it, which is a mixture that teaches your body how to fight against viruses and diseases.
vacuum\A vacuum is essentially a great lack of something — a place where virtually all matter, even air, has been removed. It can describe something that's literally empty — or something that just seems that way, like a political vacuum.
vague\If your grasp of physics is vague and you've got a test coming up, it's time to hit the books.  When something is vague, it’s unclear, murky, and hard to understand.
valedictory\A valedictory is a speech expressing farewell, as at a school graduation. The adjective valedictory relates to saying good-bye, but almost always refers to a speech or address.
valid\A valid argument is one that is well-grounded in fact, law or logic. "Their argument for annulment was valid because they had never even met and their marriage was the result of a clerical error at town hall."
valve\A valve is a device that controls the flow of a liquid or gas. Before you fix the broken sink in your bathroom, you should turn the valve that shuts off the water.
vanish\A car driving into the distance, a member of a near-extinct species, or that last piece of pecan pie in the refrigerator — any of these things is likely to vanish soon, meaning "to disappear."
vapor\When something that is normally liquid — like water — becomes a visible, gas-like substance floating in the air, it's a vapor.
variable\The adjective variable is used to describe something that is liable to change often, such as the weather, interest rates, or your teacher's mood.
varied\Something is varied when it covers a wide range of things. If you start out eating eggs in the morning, then have a snack of sushi, then pizza for lunch, fresh fruit with your tea, and a beef stew for dinner, you have a varied diet.
varnish\Varnish is a shiny coating that's painted on a floor or piece of furniture and then dries clear and luminous. After refinishing an old oak chair, you might apply a coat of varnish. (Just don't sit on it until it's dry.)
vascular\Use the adjective vascular when you're talking about blood vessels. One side effect of long-term smoking is vascular disease.
vault\Vault is a verb that means "to jump over something." If you were hurrying out to the pasture to visit your favorite cow, you might vault over the gate in your excitement.
vegetarian\A vegetarian is someone who doesn't eat any meat, including fish. Vegetarians eat a lot of salads.
vegetation\his application
vehicle\A vehicle gets you or your stuff where it needs to go. Even though the grocery store is only a few block away, you'll probably want to use a vehicle to get there, so you won't have to carry your groceries all the way home.
vein\A vein is a blood vessel. If you've ever donated blood, you know that having a needle put in your vein by a health care worker is not nearly as scary as it sounds.
velocity\If your rocket is traveling at maximum velocity, it means it can't go any faster. Velocity is quickness of motion or action.
vent\When you vent, you let something out, whether it's hot air or your feelings. If you vent your feelings, you let out a strong and sometimes angry emotion and just say what you think.
venture\his application
verbal\If your friend tells you that the speech you just made was really verbal, he means you used too many words, overstated the point, went on too long, were redundant.
verifiable\Something that's verifiable can be proven. In a courtroom, verifiable evidence is backed up with specific proof.
verruca\(pathology) a firm abnormal elevated blemish on the skin; caused by a virus
versatile\To describe a person or thing that can adapt to do many things or serve many functions, consider the adjective versatile.
verse\A poem — especially one that rhymes — is called verse. The children's author Dr. Seuss wrote in verse, and the regular rhymes of "The Cat in the Hat" helped generations of children learn to read.
version\If the professor says, “Read the complete works of Shakespeare” and you go for the Cliff Notes, you could say you read a short version of the Bard’s work, but really, you're cheating. A version is a specific edition or form of something.
vertebrate\A vertebrate is an animal that has a backbone and a skeleton. Vertebrate animals include humans.
vertex\If you’ve reached the vertex of something, you know it’s all downhill after that, because vertex refers to the highest point on an object, such as the top of a mountain.
vertical\Vertical describes something that rises straight up from a horizontal line or plane. A telephone pole or a tree can usually be described as vertical in relation to the ground.
vessel\What do a canoe, a soda can, and your arteries have in common? Each one is a type of vessel. A vessel can be a ship, a container for holding liquids, or a tube that transports blood throughout your body.
veto\A veto is a no vote that blocks a decision. The President can veto some bills that pass his desk.
viable\his application
vibrate\When you feel something vibrate, it trembles and shakes. A mild earthquake, for example, might make your chandelier vibrate.
vibration\A vibration is a shaking motion. If you feel a strong vibration in your car every time you step on the brakes, it might be a good idea to take it to a mechanic.
vice\A vice is a moral failing or a bad habit. Traditional examples of vice include drinking alcohol, smoking tobacco, and gambling in card games.
vicinity\If something is in your vicinity, it's in the surrounding area or nearby region — it's in the neighborhood, so to speak. If there's a garbage dump in your vicinity, you'll certainly smell it.
victim\Use the word victim to describe someone who has been wronged or harmed, like the victim of the armed robbery or the stores that went out of business, victims of the slow economy.
vigorous\Anything vigorous is done with force and energy. Vigorous exercise makes you sweat, and a vigorous denial makes someone else sweat.
violent\Something that's violent involves physical force or emotional intensity. If you hate violent movies, it means that you don't want to watch scenes of people being hurt or killed.
violently\advin a violent manner
viral\his application
virtually\Use the adjective virtually to mean almost. If your economics homework is nearly complete, it is virtually done.
virtue\Virtue is the quality of being morally good. If you're writing a screenplay and you want it to be a real tearjerker, make sure your hero is full of virtue.
virus\Whether in the human body or on a computer, a virus is a disease-causing agent. If you come down with a nasty stomach virus, be sure to drink lots of water, get lots of rest, and stay near the toilet.
viscosity\Viscosity is the thickness of a liquid. Water flows easily. Honey does not — that's why it has greater viscosity than water.
visible\his application
vista\A vista is a scene, view, or panorama. It's what you stop to see when you climb to the top of a mountain, or pull off the road at the "scenic view" rest stop.
visual\If you want to know the meaning of visual, just look around! Anything you can see falls under the heading of visual. What "aural" is to the ears and "olfactory" is to the nose, visual is to the eyes.
vital\A patient's vital signs are their important body functions, such as pulse rate, that shows they are still alive. Use the adjective vital to describe something that is important and necessary, or a person full of energy.
vivid\Vivid is an adjective that describes a bold and bright color, an intense feeling, or an image in your mind that is so clear you can almost touch it.
vocal\Anything vocal is related to speaking or singing, like your math class's vocal objections to a pop quiz or the vocal warm-ups that a jazz singer does before a big performance.
vocation\Unless you can find someone to pay you to sip fancy tropical drinks on the beach, your vocation is not likely to be a vacation. Rather, the word means something you know how to do––or what you do for a living.
void\A void is empty space, nothingness, zero, zilch. A place that's void of all life forms has no sign of animals, plants, or people.
volatile\his application
volcano\When the earth's crust cracks open and spews hot lava and gases, you've got a volcano on your hands. You better run.
volume\Volume can mean how much space something takes up. You could measure a bean's volume by placing it in water and measuring the water's rise.
volunteer\To volunteer means to freely offer up your time and service to help. So a volunteer might offer to water a neighbor's plants while he's on vacation or sign up to serve dinner at a local homeless shelter.
voyage\If someone tells you "bon voyage!" they mean have a good trip. Voyage means trip in French but in English, we use it to mean a long journey.
vulnerable\Use the adjective vulnerable to describe something or someone open to being physically or emotionally wounded, like a newborn chick or an overly sensitive teenager.
vulture\A vulture is a type of bird — with a bald head and neck — that feeds on dead animals.
wage\If your job pays a good wage, it means that you earn a lot of money for the hard work you do. If you're not happy with your wage, you might have to wage war on your boss.
wagon\Anything can be a wagon, so long as it has wheels and can be pulled.  Wagons are used for transporting goods, like grains from a farm, or your little sister who wants another ride around the block.
walnut\any of various trees of the genus Juglans
wane\Things that wane simply grow smaller. "My initial enthusiasm for helping waned when I saw the massive pile of envelopes that needed sealing."
ware\Ware is a particular type of item — luster ware is a kind of ceramic with a shiny metallic finish. Fiesta ware is a brand of colorful tabletop china that first became popular in the 1930s.
warehouse\A warehouse is a place where a company stores things they are going to sell. If you order a book online, it is almost certainly shipped from a warehouse to your house.
warp\To warp is to bend, twist, or otherwise become misshapen. Wooden furniture left outside in the rain will often warp from the moisture.
wary\Describe yourself as wary if you don't quite trust someone or something and want to proceed with caution. Be wary of risky things like wild mushrooms and Internet deals!
washroom\a lavatory (particularly a lavatory in a public place)
wasp\social or solitary hymenopterans typically having a slender body with the abdomen attached by a narrow stalk and having a formidable sting
watercourse\a conduit through which water flows
wax\The verb wax is most often found in the company of its opposite, "wane." To wax is to grow larger or increase, whereas wane means to grow smaller or decrease.
wear\To wear means to clothe, or be covered by. You wear suits to interviews and sweats to the gym.
weathered\Weathered things are worn by use, time, or weather, like the weathered shingles on a beachside cottage or an elderly man's weathered face.
weathering\Weather is the atmospheric conditions, including the temperature, wind, snow, rain, or anything else happening outside. People tend to talk about the weather when they can't think of anything else to talk about.
web\A web is a sticky pattern of threads woven by a spider, or something similar that appears to be woven together. Your little sister might weave a web of yarn into a potholder.
weed\any plant that crowds out cultivated plants
weird\Call something weird when it’s strange, bizarre, or strikes you as odd. Putting peanut butter on pizza is weird. So is most abstract, conceptual performance art.
welcome\A welcome is a greeting that usually comes when you first arrive. Although you aren't fond of Aunt Martha, you always manage to give her a warm welcome when she comes to visit.
welfare\Your welfare is your happiness and well being. Parents are usually in charge of their children's welfare, making sure they're healthy, happy and well fed.
well-groomed\adjhaving tasteful clothing and being scrupulously neat
wholesome\Anything wholesome is good for you. Hopscotch is in most cases a wholesome game, since you can't get into much trouble while hopping up and down on the concrete.
why\the cause or intention underlying an action or situation, especially in the phrase `the whys and wherefores&#039;
wick\a loosely woven cord (in a candle or oil lamp) that draws fuel by capillary action up into the flame
wife\a married woman; a man&#039;s partner in marriage
willful\Willful means "deliberate" or "stubborn." A child who exhibits willful disobedience knows she is doing something wrong (even if she tries to convince you otherwise).
willow\his application
wispy\Wispy describes something that's vague or flimsy. If your explanation of why you didn't help your mom paint the kitchen was weak and didn't help her understand your reasons, you'd call that a wispy explanation.
wit\Wit is brainpower or mental ability, or the person who possesses such ability, especially when it's used humorously.
withdraw\To withdraw is to take something back or remove yourself from a situation. You might withdraw money from the bank or withdraw yourself from an argument if it gets out of hand.
wither\Wither means to shrivel up or shrink. If you forget to water your plants for six weeks, they'll wither — they'll dry up and you probably won't be able to bring them back to life.
withstand\In the story of the three little pigs, only the house made of brick was able to withstand the huffing and puffing of the Big Bad Wolf. To withstand is to hold up against something strong.
wool\Wool is a fiber that comes from a sheep's or goat's hair and is used for knitting sweaters and weaving blankets. Better put on your wool hat and scarf — it's freezing out there!
workplace\a place where work is done
wound\A wound is a serious injury, especially a deep cut through the skin. But things like pride and feelings can also get wounded.
wrap\his application
wreck\A wreck is something that's been destroyed. Your hair might be a wreck after a bad day at the barber. Your car might be a wreck after you hit a telephone pole.
X-ray\his application
xenophobia\Getting a job as a greeter with the United Nations is probably not the best career option for someone who suffers from xenophobia, a fear of foreigners or strangers.
yarn\If you want to knit a hat, you're going to need yarn, the thick string made of twisted threads that's used to make sweaters, scarves, socks and other knitted things.
yeast\Bakers use yeast to turn flat, sticky dough into tall, fluffy bread. The yeast interacts with sugar and fills the bread with pockets of air as it bakes.
yield\Yield has two meanings that seem quite different: "an amount" or "to give way." The yield of the recipe was twelve brownies. To avoid being tripped, Mary was forced to yield to the children on her way to the brownie plate.
yogurt\Yogurt is a creamy, slightly sour food that many people like to eat for breakfast. Frozen yogurt also makes a delicious dessert — especially with plenty of chocolate sprinkles.
zealous\his application
zigzag\The word zigzag describes the shape of a line. A line drawn in a zigzag shape makes a lot of short, sharp turns. The letter Z is a zigzag itself, and a thunderbolt is also often represented as a zigzag.
zinc\his application
zipper\A zipper is a sliding fastener. You'll get cold and wet if you don't zip the zipper on your coat during a blizzard.
zone\A zone is an area that has some special characteristic, like a loading zone.
